What type of organism is commonly used in preparation of foods such as cheese and yogurt?
What phenomenon makes global winds blow northeast to southwest or the reverse in the northern hemisphere and northwest to southeast or the reverse in the southern hemisphere?
Changes from a less-ordered state to a more-ordered state (such as a liquid to a solid) are always what?
What is the least dangerous radioactive decay?
Kilauea in hawaii is the world’s most continuously active volcano. very active volcanoes characteristically eject red-hot rocks and lava rather than this?
When a meteoroid reaches earth, what is the remaining object called?
What kind of a reaction occurs when a substance reacts quickly with oxygen?
Organisms categorized by what species descriptor demonstrate a version of allopatric speciation and have limited regions of overlap with one another, but where they overlap they interbreed successfully?.
Alpha emission is a type of what?
What is the stored food in a seed called?
Zinc is more easily oxidized than iron because zinc has a lower reduction potential. since zinc has a lower reduction potential, it is a more what?
What is controlled by both genes and experiences in a given envionment?
What tells you how much of the food you should eat to get the nutrients listed on the label?
What are used to write nuclear equations for radioactive decay?
What is controlled by regulatory proteins that bind to regulatory elements on dna?
Boron only occurs naturally in compounds with what element?
What organ systems link exchange surfaces with cells throughout the body?
What occurs when the immune system attacks a harmless substance that enters the body from the outside?
Fertilization is the union of a sperm and egg, resulting in the formation of what?
The plants alternation between haploid and diploud generations allow it to do what?
Most of the chemical reactions in the body are facilitated by what?
What is the termination of a pregnancy in progress called?
Cutting down on the use of chemical fertilizers and preserving wetlands are ways to prevent what "unlivable" regions in bodies of water?
Which muscles allow your fingers to also make precise movements for actions?
Testing what usually requires making observations or performing experiments?
This sharing of electrons produces what is known as a covalent bond. covalent bonds are ~20 to 50 times stronger than what?
Water molecules move about continuously due to what type of energy?
A small scale version of what type of map displays individual rock units?
What is defined as a change in the inherited traits of organisms over time?
What hormone, which is associated with luteinizing hormone and male sexuality, helps bring about physical changes in puberty?
Where do angiosperms produce seeds in flowers?
In order to create food, what do photosynthetic protists use?
What type of vertebrates are birds?
What type of ions do ionic compounds contain?
All living things need air and this to survive?
The cells of all eukarya have a what?
What type of plate boundaries produce huge mountain ranges in the ocean basin?
Interstitial carbides are produced by the reaction of most transition metals at high temperatures with what element?
Fungus-like protist saprobes play what role in a food chain and are specialized to absorb nutrients from nonliving organic matter, such as dead organisms or their wastes?
What are the sites of protein synthesis or assembly?
What must replicate in the cell cycle before meiosis i takes place?
What phenomenon is primarily the result of plate tectonic motions?
What is a group of neuron cell bodies in the periphery called?
Where does most of our food come from?
Gases are most ideal at high temperature and what pressure?
Hard igneous rocks and easily dissolved sedimentary rocks respond very differently to what natural force?
A diet rich in calcium and what vitamin may reduce the risk of osteoporosis and related bone fractures?
How many people die from air pollution each year?
What substances serve as catalysts in most of the biochemical reactions that take place in organisms?
The formation of an amalgam allows the metal to react with what?
A pulley changes the direction of the force t exerted by the cord without changing its what?
What is the name of the small bumps that contain taste buds and covers the tongue?
In the absence of air resistance, all falling objects accelerate at the same rate due to what force?
The ability for a plasma membrane to only allow certain molecules in or out of the cell is referred to as what?
In the presence of oxygen, hydrogen can interact to make what?
What galaxy is our solar system a part of?
The angle at which light bends when it enters a different medium is known as what?
Whether the organism is a bacterium, plant, or animal, all living things access energy by breaking down these?
Increasing the temperature of n2 molecules increases what energy of motion?
Which radio frequency should you listen to if you want less noise?
What form of radiation is the energy emitted by the sun?
What is the suns innermost layer called?
A growth spurt requires constant divisions of what?
What's the term for the gradual progression from simple plants to larger more complex ones in an area?
Fungi may form mutualistic relationships with plants, algae, cyanobacteria, and what?
Which cycle tracks the flow of nitrogen through an ecosystem?
What consequence of a tornado is responsible for most injuries and deaths?
What are the only truly innate behaviors in humans called?
What happens to the density of air as the altitude decreases?
How do some animals change their depth?
What phenomenon is crowding out other species and making all the other causes of extinction worse?
Dessication is an extreme and usually fatal form of what in animals?
Internal and external forms of what life process occur as simple diffusion due to a partial pressure gradient?
The fossil record shows that this type of event is followed by the evolution of new species to fill the habitats where old species lived?
Soluble minerals and clays accumulate in what soil layer, allowing it to hold more water?
What is the common word for potential difference in a circuit?
How many chambers does the stomach of a crocodile have?
When populations get close to the carrying capacity, what happens to growth?
Although air can transfer heat rapidly by convection, it is a poor conductor and thus a good what?
Most plants grow continuously, except for what periods?
What man-made devices in space are used to observe the earth's surface?
Carboxylic acids are weak acids, meaning they are not 100% ionized in what?
An endocrine disease usually involves the secretion of too much or not enough of what?
In experiments with garden peas, austrian monk gregor mendel described the basic patterns of what?
Nutrition and diet affect your metabolism. more energy is required to break down fats and proteins than this?
What are unsaturated hydrocarbons with at least one double bond between carbon atoms called?
What is the opposite of melting?
A unique characteristic of mammals is the ability to chew, this happens by the temporalis and the masseter allowing what?
Most of the pathogens that cause stis enter the body through mucous membranes of which organs?
The activation of what kind of buds induces branching?
Sexual reproduction involves haploid gametes and produces a diploid zygote through what process?
All alkanes are composed of carbon and hydrogen atoms, and have similar bonds, structures, and formulas; noncyclic alkanes all have a formula of cnh2n+2. the number of carbon atoms present in an alkane has what?
What percentage of men suffer from some form of erectile dysfunction by age 40?
What secures together immovable joints and prevents them from moving?
Transform faults are the site of massive what?
When water goes above and below its freezing point, what rock-breaking phenomenon is common?
The diatoms are unicellular photosynthetic protists that encase themselves in intricately patterned, glassy cell walls composed of silicon dioxide in a matrix of organic particles. these protists are a component of freshwater and these?
What type of reactions form compounds?
Millions of years ago, plants used energy from the sun to form what?
What is the term for the process in which living things with beneficial traits produce more offspring than others do?
In a chemical reaction, the amounts of reactants and products will be constant when what state is attained?
What protects a developing flower while it is still a bud?
What is the term for the force of attraction between things that have a mass?
What are the long, thin protein extensions in most prokaryotic cells called?
Dialysis is a treatment for failure of what organs?
What preventive measure can protect even young children against diseases such as viral meningitis?
Renal plasma flow equals the blood flow per minute times the what?
What does lattice energy of an ionic solid measure the strength of?
How many different types of taste can be detected by taste buds?
What species do humans belong to?
Titration is a method to determine what in acids or bases?
How many different amino acids make up proteins.
What are sores in the lining of the stomach or duodenum that are usually caused by bacterial infections or acidity?
In some species, what has led to the evolution of alternative male mating behavior and morphology?
What structure is made from dna and protein molecules coiled together?
What renewable energy source converts energy from the sunlight into electricity?
The radial artery and which artery parallel their namesake bones, giving off smaller branches until they reach the wrist, or carpal region?
The bones of the skull are connected by what type of joints?
What is the lowest layer of the atmosphere?
What is the name of the type of plant tissue consisting of undifferentiated cells that can continue to divide and differentiate?
Phosphate-containing ocean sediments form primarily from the bodies of ocean organisms and from their what?
What does erosion do to pieces of broken rock?
The passing of traits from parents to offspring is done through what?
In a glass of sweet tea the sugar is known as the solute and the water is known as what?
A few earthquakes take place away from plate boundaries, these are called what?
Red litmus paper turns what color when placed in a basic solution?
The difference between the theoretical half-reaction reduction potential and the actual voltage required is called what?
While the egg is developing, other changes are taking place in the uterus. it develops a thick lining that is full of what?
The neural plate undergoes a series of cell movements where it rolls up and forms a tube called what?
Due to the __________ nature of the lipids that make up cell membranes, polar molecules (such as water) and ions cannot easily diffuse across the cell membrane.
In what way do all vertebrates reproduce?
First, high temperature denatures proteins and does what to cells?
What term is used to describe a collection of molecules surrounded by a phospholipid bilayer that is capable of reproducing itself?
By allowing blood levels of a hormone to be regulated within a narrow range, feedback loops contribute to maintaining what state?
Collagen fibers, elastic fibers, and reticular fibers comprise what type of tissue?
What the name of the disease where some of the alveoli of the lungs fill with fluid so they can no longer exchange gas?
What occurs when groups from the same species stop mating because of something other than physical or geographic separation?
What environment do animals with gills live in?
What is the boiling and freezing point of water in celcius?
What are living things that obtain glucose by eating self feeders called?
Virtually every task performed by living organisms requires this?
The binding of what helps eliminate antigens by phagocytosis and complement-mediated lysis
What muscles are used to pump water over the gills?
Compounds like sodium chloride form structures called what?
What are made of long chains consisting almost solely of carbon and hydrogen?
When a series of measurements is precise but not what, the error is usually systematic?
Inserting copies of normal genes into a patient with defective genes is known as?
What type of reproduction usually occur during times of environmental stress?
All forms of energy can be interconverted. three things can change the energy of an object: the transfer of heat, work performed on or by an object, or some combination of what?
What science includes many fields of science related to our home planet?
What are alloys that are mostly composed of mercury known as?
What are made from highly reflective metal that is applied to a curved or flat piece of glass?
What do ranchers fear will happen if wolves return?
How many types of surface waves are there?
What is the rigid layer that is found outside the cell membrane and surrounds the cell?
Surface tension of alveolar fluid, which is mostly water, creates an inward pull of the tissue of what organ?
What type of tumor mostly does not cause serious problems and can be completely removed by surgery?
What supports and protects the soft organs of the body?
What celestial body is the earth’s main source of energy?
What do you call the horizontal stems of a strawberry plant that run over the ground surface?
Glaciers are incredibly powerful agents of what?
What type of pressure is the pressure exerted by gas particles in earth’s atmosphere as those particles collide with objects?
What helps the plasma membrane keep its shape?
What type of reproduction only involves one parent?
What is defined as a repeating series of events that include growth, dna synthesis, and cell division?
How metalloids behave in chemical interactions with other elements depends mainly on the number of what, in the outer energy level of their atoms?
What distinguishing characteristic of annelid anatomy shows specialization and adaptation?
The spermatids are transported from the testes to where?
How does water from roots reach the leaves?
As a polycrystalline material solidifies, grains with irregular shapes form. the interfaces between grains constitute grain what?
Motors are the most common application of magnetic force on current-carrying wires. motors have loops of wire in this?
What makes and stores pigments that give petals and fruit their orange and yellow colors?
What term is used to describe when a liquid is the temperature at which its equilibrium vapor pressure is equal to the pressure exerted on the liquid by its gaseous surroundings?
When electrons return to a lower energy level, they emit the excess energy in the form of what?
What is another term for nearsightedness?
What are the areas located at fixed distances from the nucleus of the atom?
In which state of matter do particles take the shape of their container, but cannot expand to fill it?
Runoff is likely to cause more what if the land is bare?
Cations have what type of charge?
What organ is subdivided into ascending, descending, transverse and sigmoid parts?
Ammonia, urea, and uric acid are examples of what kind of waste?
What are variants of genes called?
Mushrooms are an example of what type of organism, which includes beneficial and toxic specimens?
Comparing what sequences provides clues to evolution and development?
What is a measure of the average amount of energy of motion, or kinetic energy, a system contains called?
What is the minimum mass capable of supporting sustained fission called?
Many hydrocarbons are cyclic and adopt specific three-dimensional structures that influence their physical and what properties?
The secondary wall contains _________ , a secondary cell component in plant cells that have completed cell growth/expansion.
What does the cell cycle do?
Inside the nasal area of the skull, the nasal cavity is divided into halves by the what?
Bacteria can be chemotrophs, which obtain what by breaking down chemical compounds in their environment?
Habitat loss, introduced species, overharvesting, and global change are major threats to what?
What "plumbing" structures inside the veins maintain a unidirectional flow of blood despite the low blood pressure?
What do we call the cartilaginous structure that surrounds the notochrod?
What is the process of the transfer of pollen from an anther to a stigma in angiosperms called?
Despite its small size, an erythrocyte contains about 250 million molecules of what?
How many variables are used to describe the condition of a gas?
What is a suggested explanation for a phenomenon or a suggested explanation for a relationship between many phenomena called?
Land plants are classified into two major groups according to the absence or presence of what tissue?
What type of treatment is necessary for anaphylaxis?
What substances, which are distinct from acids and bases, form when ions form ionic bonds?
What is the name for biochemical compounds that consist of one or more chains of small molecules called amino acids?
What are the ionic compounds that produce negative hydroxide ions when dissolved in water?
The atomic number of tungsten is 74. therefore, in a neutral atom of tungsten, there are 74 electrons. the atomic number of argon is 18. therefore, in a neutral atom of argon, there are how many electrons?
What is the apparatus used for carrying out an electrolysis reaction?
What two ways may light be transmitted?
Triggered by changes in the environment, migration and hibernation occur as cycles on what temporal basis?
What pair of tubes that extends toward the ovaries features a fringelike structure that sweeps eggs inside?
In most animals, what sense is related to balance or equilibrium?
Terminal pods are located at the end of what?
What forms when the spores from two parents fuse during sexual reproduction?
What is the name of the galaxy we live in?
What are the most common seedless vascular plants?
In a monogamous pairing, a male individual is generally paired with what other type of individual in a sexual relationship?
What is a mass spectrometer used to measure?
What combines sets of genes from two different parents leading to genetically diverse offspring?
Global warming will raise ocean levels due to melt water from glaciers and the greater volume of what?
What are groups of young stars loosely held together by gravity called?
What does a pollinator pick up from its body and carry directly to another plant of the same species?
What is formed when an oxygen atom picks up a pair of hydrogen ions from a solution?
What does the driving of turbines by the heating of water to steam accomplish?
What is a device that changes kinetic energy to electrical energy through electromagnetic induction?
How many naturally occurring elements are known on earth?
What are the two types of vesicle transport called?
What do you call a species that has died out in the past?
Where does the embryo develop in a plant?
What is the method of setting or correcting a measuring device by matching it to known measurement standards called?
What property of warm air causes it to rise above cold air?
Which branch of biology studies animal behavior?
What unit of measure is equal to the amount of work a horse can do in 1 minute?
What organism is characterized by an incomplete digestive system and a single, tentacled opening?
What term is not the same as energy, but means the energy per unit charge?
What specific part of the african violet is used to propagate other plants?
What are fibers that depend on aerobic respiration called?
Which form of electromagnetic waves have more energy: low frequency wave or high frequency waves?
Something that has all of the characteristics of life is considered to be what?
What do the letters in our blood types represent?
The two stages of photosynthesis are the light reactions and what?
What do living things need to survive?
The denser regions of the electron cloud are called what?
In studying energy, what term do scientists use to refer to the matter and its environment involved in energy transfers?
To measure what changes that occur in chemical reactions, chemists usually use a related thermodynamic quantity, calledenthalpy?
A system in what state cannot spontaneously change, and therefore can do no work?
What is a species that plays an especially important role in it's community called?
What term that shows how fast a population is growing includes new members added to the population over a given period, as well as old members removed from the population?
The rings of what planet can be easily seen from earth?
What planet is a blue green color?
The simplest class of organic compounds is the what?
Some meteorites are made of iron and nickel and are thought to be very similar to what part of the earth?
Which pathway carries somatosensory information from the face, head, mouth, and nasal cavity?
The amount of kinetic energy in a moving object depends directly on its mass and what else?
Cycling, shoveling snow and cross-country skiing are examples of what kind of heart-strengthening activity?
What take the shape of their container, and are relatively easy to compress?
What is moving air called?
What property makes bone marrow cells ideal for gene therapy?
What is the name of the two metalloids in the carbon group called?
What is the name of the zone where water is deeper than 200 meters called?
Diagnosing and treating cancer is a beneficial use of what potentially dangerous energy?
Many adults and some children suffer from a deficiency of lactase. these individuals are said to be lactose intolerant because they cannot digest the lactose found in what?
Three-prong plugs, circuit breakers, and gfci outlets are safety features that recognize the danger of what?
Catabolic reactions break down large organic molecules into smaller molecules, releasing the energy contained in what?
In qualitative analysis, reagents are added to an unknown chemical mixture in order to induce what?
While climate change in earth history was due to natural processes, what is primarily to blame for recent global warming?
What is the simplest life cycle?
What keeps the moon orbiting earth?
What are formed by the attraction between oppositely charged ions?
What produces hormones that directly regulate body processes?
Comparing anatomy, and characterizing the similarities and differences, provides evidence of what process?
What is the second most abundant element in the earth's crust?
Which kind of genetics approach involves mutating or deleting genes provides researchers with clues about gene function?
More than half of all known organisms are what?
For what purpose does liver use the excess carbohydrate?
Saturn is made mostly of helium and what else?
What are alkenes organic compounds that contain one or more double or triple bonds between carbon atoms described as?
Electrons in covalent compounds are shared between the two atoms, unlike the case in what type of bonds?
What is the resistance of a liquid to flow called?
The mass of atoms is based on the number of protons and neutrons in what?
Where do polychaete worms live?
What is the study of how and why plants and animals live where they do?
Muscles that position the pectoral girdle are located either on the anterior thorax or on this?
What are the two major types of seed plants called?
What do we call the energy-rich product of photosynthesis?
How is oxygen transferred into the bloodstream?
Ringworm and athlete's foot are human diseases caused by what simple organisms?
What is the measure of the change in the velocity of a moving object called?
What is the usual treatment for acute bronchitis?
What are generally divided into prosimian and non-prosimian?
The creation and destruction of oceanic crust is the reason what moves?
What is the concept by which two species within the same area to coexist by adapting by developing different specializations?
A turbine that spins a generator will produce?
Meiosis in the sporophyte produces haploid cells called what?
In this type of reaction, an element replaces another element in a compound, and the element is in any state of matter but is not an ion?
What are the two distinct types of cells found in the animal kingdom?
What category of elements are chacterized by their ability to reflect light, called luster, their high electrical and thermal conductivity, their high heat capacity, and their malleability and ductility?
Angiosperms are also known as what?
An estimated 100 trillion of these live in the gut of an average person?
The ability to regulate what, which is possessed by mammals, was an advantage as earth’s climate went through sudden and dramatic changes?
What is the term for very large arrays of tandemly repeating, non-coding dna?
What kind of map can show the features of the bottom of a body of water?
What evolved, adapted response to resource availability is the long-range seasonal movement of animals?
When animals get rid of their gaseous waste, what is exhaled through their mouth and nose?
What is another name for composite volcanos?
Fossil records support the idea that periods of little change may be interrupted by bursts of rapid change, an evolutionary model contrasted by what?
What type of winds occur when air is forced over a mountain range?
What do clouds trap into the atmosphere at night?
A nerve cell that carries messages is called a?
What group of animals are the largest arthropods?
What term describes a collection of similar cells that had a common embryonic origin?
Most biochemical molecules are macromolecules, meaning that they are what?
The name of a spinal cord region corresponds to the level at which spinal nerves pass through the what?
Tests for levels of what in blood allow a diabetic patient to regulate how much insulin to administer?
The process of breaking down food into nutrients is known as __________
Reasoning can be broken down into two categories: deduction and?
What are used to make maps of the moon and other planets?
What term describes how closely packed the particles of matter are?
Populations of viruses do not grow through cell division because they?
What is likely to happen to a parasite if it kills its host?
What is a type of solid that lacks an ordered internal structure?
What is it called when you get the same result after repeating an experiment?
What is the largest human organ?
In the chest, the trachea divides as it enters the lungs to form the right and left what?
Many objects have color because they contain what?
What is the process of action potentials in myelinated axons jumping between the nodes of ranvier called?
What do craters and rifts become when the fill with water?
What kind of power does not produce any pollutants, but produces waste that can be difficult to dispose of?
What is the long, narrow tube that carries food from the pharynx to the stomach by the mechanism of peristalsis?
What is the temperature at which condensation of water vapor occurs called?
Alkenes have double bonds while alkynes have what?
What is our main source of aluminum ore?
Rapidly produced genetic vairants are found in organisms with what type of generation time?
What are the 2 primary hosts of ebola in central africa?
Unlike prokaryotic cells, dna and rna synthesis in eukaryotic cells occurs in a separate compartment from synthesis of what?
What important organelle (that would otherwise be centrally located and crucial to the cell's survival) do prokaryotic cells lack?
What is the outer layer of an axon that acts like a layer of insulation, similar to the plastic that encases an electrical cord?
What occurs when some members of a species become geographically separated?
What creatures evolved from a lobe-finned lungfish ancestor?
What is the term for a mixture of two or more substances that has the same composition throughout?
What are flagellate protozoa that cause giardiasis?
Rna and dna are types of what biochemical compounds containing the elements carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and phosphorus?
What are the contacts between neurons called?
What is the color of the powder of a mineral?
What basic plant structure facilitates dispersal of pollen and fruit by raising reproductive structures?
What type of compound is essential to life?
Which part of the ear amplifies the sound waves?
The shape of a virus is determined by the type and arrangement of proteins in its what?
What is the rising and sinking of warm and cooler material called?
What is a group of connected cells that have a similar function within an organism called?
The number of what subatomic particles can vary between atoms of the same element?
Water is recycled constantly through which system?
The process in which organ systems work to maintain a stable internal environment is called what?
What do scientist's believe mercury's core is mostly made of?
What material comprises the sun and other stars, as well as lightning and the northern lights?
The function of which organ is to filter blood and form urine?
The attraction between all objects in the universe is known as ______.
Friction causes the molecules on rubbing surfaces to move faster, which produces what?
The cell wall acts as an extra layer of protection, helps the cell maintain its shape, and prevents what?
What's another term for egg-laying mammals?
What code is the same in all living things and shows that all organisms are related by descent from a common ancestor?
All animals that derive energy from food are classified as what?
Through which process is the human gene for insulin placed into bacteria?
What is a symbiotic relationship in which both species benefit?
What is the term for longer chains of monosaccharides ?
Electrical potential energy can be described by the equation pe = qv, where q is the electric charge and v is what?
What are broad explanations that are widely accepted as true?
What process is at work when warm air or water rises, and cool air or water sinks?
If force is applied further away from a pivot point, than what kind of acceleration will be greater?
The kinetic-molecular theory as it applies to gases has how many basic assumptions?
During photosynthesis, what is energy from the sun converted to after entering a plant?
Formic acid is found in the secretions of?
What do hydrophilic substances have an affinity for?
What is a structure that consists of two or more types of tissues that work together to do the same job?
What is formed when amino acids are linked together in a long chain?
Both diffusion and effusion are related to the speed at which what objects move?
Baroreceptors in the aortic arch and carotid sinuses monitor what level in the body?
The electronegativity of an element increases with increasing of what state?
Animals require air, water, and what in order to live and survive?
How many types of bosons are there?
What astronomical phenomenon, formed of split asteroids or planetary rocks, provides clues about our solar system?
An electron possesses both particle and these?
What are mutant versions of normal genes called?
The heart and a network of blood vessels that run throughout the body make up what organ system?
When a predator kills and eats its prey, what sort of predation is this referred to as?
Pressure, volume, and temperature are related by which law?
Different forms, or allotropes, of carbon are diamond, graphite, and what?
What is the process in which organisms reproduce sexually by joining gametes called?
What is the force of attraction between things that have mass
Mitosis and meiosis are two types of what process, with dramatically different products?
Zinc reacting with hydrochloric acid produces bubbles of which gas?
Water gains and loses what more slowly than does land, affecting seasonal conditions inland and on the coast?
Covalent solutes separate into what when dissolved?
What term indicates moles per liter, whereas molality is moles per kilogram of solvent?
Many of the hormones are secreted in response to what signals of the body?
What are two of the most common vision problems?
Hydrochloric acid is formed when hcl is dissolved into what?
Atoms of the same element that have different masses are called what?
What term is used to describe potential energy due to an object’s shape?
What property is characterized by eddies and swirls that mix layers of fluid together, unlike laminar flow?
What process refers to a separation of charge within an atom or molecule?
What is the largest cartilaginous fish?
Capillaries in the chorionic villi filter fetal wastes out of the blood and return clean, oxygenated blood to the fetus through what?
What is the term for a random change in allele frequencies that occurs in a small population?
Aerobic exercise helps improve the cardiovascular system, while what exercise causes muscles to get bigger and stronger?
An excessive posterior curvature of the thoracic region is also known as what?
What are the two main divisions of the human nervous system?
What is composed of two strands of nucleotides in a double-helical structure?
The body is made up of how many types of tissue?
The great astronomer edwin hubble discovered that all distant galaxies are receding from our milky way galaxy with velocities proportional to their what?
What is friction that acts on objects while it is rolling over a surface called?
Traditionally, mammals were divided into groups based on what?
What type of bonds do alkanes only contain?
Which part of the wave helps make the wave bend and cause refraction?
What are passed from one generation to the next so species can survive?
What kind of lines does a diffraction grating produce?
Which type of ferns have yellow sporangia and no leaves?
Ice masses, acquifers, and the deep ocean are examples of water what?
This heat is used to convert water into steam, which is then used to turn a turbine, thus generating what?
What atmospheric layer lies above the highest altitude an airplane can go and below the lowest altitude a spacecraft can orbit?
Where are sensors for thermoregulation concentrated in the brain?
What is the first step in the breakdown of glucose to extract energy for cellular metabolism?
What charge do atoms carry?
The pleura that surrounds the lungs consists of how many layers?
Organisms that obtain food from outside themselves (i.e. they don't make their own food) are known as what?
In scientific investigations, descriptive statistics are useful for summarizing the characteristics of large what?
The process of the cytoplasm splitting apart and the cell pinching in two is known as what?
What kind of mountainous formation can often be found near trenches?
Because it can be controlled intentionally, skeletal muscle is also called what type of muscle?
What effect in the atmosphere ensures that the earth maintains the correct temperature to support life?
Felsic, intermediate, mafic, and ultramafic are types of composition of what rock group?
What is the base of nearly all food chains on earth?
The skull is a part of a vertebrate endoskeleton that encloses and protects what organ?
The global pattern of precipitation is influenced by movements of what?
What is the name of the region of a magnet that has the most pull?
How many major forces of elevation cause allele frequencies to change?
Where in the atom is a neutron found?
In physics, what is defined as the average kinetic energy of the particles of matter?
What organelles are known as the "power plants" of the cell?
Dalton's law and henry's law both describe aspects of what type of exchange?
What vesicles store neurotransmitters?
What temperature scale is obtained by adding 273 degrees from the corresponding celsius temperature?
Hemoglobin is a large molecule made up of proteins and iron. it consists of four folded chains of a protein called this?
A new species is said to have evolved if separated members of a species evolve genetic differences that prevent what from occurring with the original members??
What term describes the orientation of a body lying face-down?
What happens to energy when an atom gains an electron?
What is the name of the second most electronegative element?
What is the term for species evolving together?
Where do the eggs develop?
What's the other term for your wind pipe?
When food is scarce, starving cells secrete a molecule that stimulates neighboring cells to do what?
What do cells secrete that binds to receptors?
What is the term for the tube that carries sound waves into the ear?
In the cardiovascular system, what blood vessels carry blood away from the heart?
Molecules in the gas phase can collide with the liquid surface and reenter the liquid via what?
What guards the opening between the right atrium and the right ventricle?
The water cycle involves movement of water between air and what?
When we consider a chemical reaction, we need to take into account both the system and what?
What is a layer of tissue that lies between the shell and the body?
In what country can some of the largest natural crystals be found?
What are the primary producers in terrestrial biomes?
Where are aerofoils found?
What is the si unit for pressure?
Marine fishes take in divalent ions by incessantly drinking what?
The simplest and smallest particle of matter that still has chemical properties of the element is called?
Frequency and intensity are two measurable properties of what?
While most mammals give birth to live young, monotremes can do what?
What happens to old oceanic crust at convergent boundaries?
When electrons are shared between two atoms, they make a bond called a what?
What happens to the temperature of matter as light is absorbed?
By shocking ocean water, earthquakes can cause what deadly ocean waves?
Where are the desmosome found in a cell?
An action potential that starts at the axon hillock moves along the axon only toward what?
Fission is a type of radioactivity in which large nuclei spontaneously break apart into what?
Bones are the main organs of what system, which also includes cartilage and ligaments?
Most waves strike the shore at an angle. this causes what?
What is the difference between the daily high and the daily low?
Spermatogonia are the stem cells of what male sex organs?
Sensory neurons transmit nerve impulses from sense organs and internal organs to the brain via the?
Sexually reproducing organisms alternate between which stages?
Acids turn blue litmus paper which color?
The development of a head region is called what?
Which hormone helps cells absorb sugar from the blood?
What is the number of electrons equal to in every electrically neutral atom?
Does climate change have a positive or negative effect on reproductive success?
What is the most common form of dwarfism in humans?
What is the term for groups of three successive nucleotide bases in dna?
The coccyx, or tailbone, results from the fusion of four small what?
What is a pure substance that cannot be separated into any other substances called?
How many different types of stresses are there?
A molecule has two structures that can be generated. what is this called?
An antigen is a molecule that reacts with some component of the what response?
What bodily system is primarily responsible for fighting pathogens in the body?
Displacement, velocity, acceleration, and force are examples of what type of quantity that has magnitude and direction?
Gases such as co2 and methane can trap what energy in earth's atmosphere, before radiating it into space?
What happens when heated water is released into a body of water?
What term is used to describe a chemical released by an animal that affects the behavior or physiology of animals of the same species?
Producers at the base of ecological food webs are also known as?
What is the term for the gas in smog that can damage plants?
What must happen for two ions to form an ionic bond?
What is the study of the similarities and differences in the embryos of different species?
What are the main organs of the respiratory system?
What do you call the traits that allow a plant, animal, or other organism to survive and reproduce in its environment?
The products of photosynthesis are glucose and what else?
In what way do bacteria reproduce?
What type of fibers are made mostly of protein in living things?
What force is responsible for erosion by flowing water and glaciers?
Nearly all protists exist in some type of aquatic environment, including freshwater and marine environments, damp soil, and even snow. several protist species are parasites that infect animals or plants. a few protist species live on dead organisms or their wastes, and contribute to what?
What type of rocks form from cooled magma or lava?
What kind of cells have positive cell potentials, and all the reduction reactions are reversible?
A fish's stream-lined body that reduces water resistance is an example of what kind of response to an aquatic lifestyle?
Emissions of what gas into the atmosphere from fossil fuel burning have been rising for the past several decades?
Gymnosperms have seeds but do not have what?
Modern members of what broad animal group live in many different habitats and are found on every continent except antarctica?
The right ventricle pumps what type of blood toward the lungs?
Some 96% of the dry mass consists of organic compounds produced by what?
What is it called when something is unable to move from place to place?
What waves are the broad range of electromagnetic waves with the longest wavelengths and lowest frequencies?
What are the two main types of sedimentary rocks?
Light waves which interfere with themselves after interaction with a small aperture or target are said to what?
Distance traveled divided by time yields what measurement, which is another word used to describe the speed of a chemical reaction?
Beryllium, magnesium, calcium, strontium, and barium are classified as what type of metals?
Common among mammals and insects, pheromones are often related to what type of behavior?
Neutron stars are the corpses of left over what?
In recent years, however, researchers have discovered that microsporidia actually have tiny organelles derived from what?
The negative logarithm of the hydroxide-ion concentration of a solution is called?
What is the greatest contribution of arthropods to human food supply?
What kind of weather change do la nina years usually bring?
In physics, _______ is defined as the average kinetic energy of the particles in an object?
What are proteins encoded by?
In alcoholic fermentation , which acid changes to alcohol and carbon dioxide?
What is another term for scale worms?
What type of device do scientist use to determine wind speed?
Which constellation looks like a rectangle high in winter's south-southeastern sky?
What mammal is often a pollinator of nocturnal flowers?
What can reproduce by infecting the cell of a living host?
The theory that establishes the concepts of atoms and how they compose matter is called what?
How does the heart transport blood?
The gender of a baby is determined by what special pair of chromosomes?
What does the activity of an organism depend on the totality of?
What is solid water that forms when water vapor undergoes deposition?
What gets released into the atmosphere when fossil fuels are burned?
What is the term for the measure of a fluid's thickness?
Plant cells have structures that animal cells?
What reduces the need for pesticides and other toxic chemicals?
Matter can be described with what two encompassing types of properties?
When the number of active receptors falls below that threshold, what happens to the cellular response?
Types of neurons include sensory neurons, motor neurons, and?
Active and passive forms of what enable the body to resist damage from pathogens?
What is the energy of motion called?
What is the term for an infection caused by a fungal parasite?
What do you call the ability to sense sound energy and perceive sound?
Some plants can detect increased levels of what when reflected from leaves of encroaching neighbors?
What are the  high points of a transverse wave called?
What is the transfer of heat by a current?
When acellular slime molds swarm, they fuse together to form a single cell with many what?
Potential energy is not only associated with the location of matter, but also with the structure of matter. even a spring on the ground has potential energy if it is what?
What is the name of film that polyester fibers form?
Where do germline mutations occur in?
What a mixture of nitric acid and hydrochloric acid?
Most members of what kingdom of spore-making organisms grow on the forest floor, where the dark and damp environment is rich?
What results when the water vapor from a hot shower contacts the cooler surface of a mirror?
What type of vascular plants produce seeds in cones?
In fruit flies, all homeotic genes are found on one what?
Certain medications can suppress the immune system. this is an intended effect of drugs given to people with what?
The geometry of the bf 3 molecule is called what?
In multicellular organisms, mutations can be subdivided into germline mutations and?
What is the name for a biologist who studies fungi?
How many different kinds of ions are produced when sodium chloride dissociates ?
What mineral is made of one silicon atom and two oxygen atoms?
How many cycles do cells have?
Gas particles can move randomly in what directions?
The total number of protons and neutorns in an atom is called what?
All matter is composed of tiny indivisible particles called atoms. all atoms of an element are identical in mass and this?
Where do lightnings build up?
What do we call zeros that appear after nonzero digits?
What term is used to describe a bond formed by the overlap of orbitals in an end-to-end fashion, with the electron density concentrated between the nuclei of the bonding atoms?
According to count rumford, which two are equivalent ways of transferring energy?
What type of radio waves exist in the 540 to 1600 khz frequency range?
What type of cells make up about one quarter of all white blood cells?
The mass of the objects and the distance between them affect the strength of what universal force?
Without the dominant disturbance, the fire-adapted species are usually outcompeted and biodiversity is what?
Constantly going through some form of growth and repair is a characteristic of all what?
Positive charges move in the direction of the electric field and the same direction as what current?
Redox reactions, like other chemical reactions, begin with a product and end with what?
How does alcohol expand over a wide range of temperatures?
How many years ago may the earliest fungi have evolved?
What are the bones in partly movable joints held in place by?
Sepals, petals, stamens, and carpels are what kind of organs?
How do most growing plant cells expand?
What is the common term for the chemical formula h 2 0?
What kind of reaction is needed to prepare amides?
What is the process by which the egg is fertilized by the pollen of the same flower?
In moss, what becomes elongated to elevate the capsule to enhance spore dispersal?
What is the base unit that frequency is typically measured in?
Controlling muscles and maintaining balance are just two of the roles of what system?
Displacement divided by time is equal to the average what?
The complete hydrolysis of starch yields what?
What term describes an imbalance of attractive forces between liquid molecules at the surface of a liquid?
In mammals, four specialized types of what serve to cut, tear, and grind food?
Atherosclerosis and coronary heart disease are examples of what type of body system disease?
When cats mark their territory by rubbing their face against an object, they deposit chemicals released by what structures?
Like other bryophytes, moss plants spend most of their life cycle as?
What is a benefit of low sulfur coal over high sulfur coal?
Wings of bats and birds serve the same function. which body part should you study to understand ancestral differences?
The best thermal conductors are also the best conductors of what, which is also related to the density of free electrons in them?
What tissue do clubmosses have that mosses do not?
The average human body contains 5,830 g of what?
What type of speciation occurs when groups from the same species are geographically isolated for long periods?
What can damage the hair cells lining the cochlea of the inner ear?
The boiling point of a solution is higher than the boiling point of the pure solvent, but the opposite occurs with this?
What is the network of vessels and tissues that carry a clear fluid called lymph called?
What is defined as the change of water from its liquid phase to its gaseous phase?
Radiation, chemicals, and infectious agents are types of what?
What type of matter transmits light without scattering it?
Steam actually consists of tiny droplets of liquid what?
What mammalian class has the greatest ability to learn?
What is the part of the cardiovascular system that carries oxygen-rich blood away from the heart, to the body, and returns oxygen-poor blood back to the heart?
What causes polarization in a neutral object?
Cells in blood include red blood cells, white blood cells, and what?
What substance is created when a copper turns from reddish brown to greenish brown?
The egg shell membrane encloses the nucleus containing the genetic material and what?
According to dalton's law, unless they chemically react with each other, individual gases in a mixture of gases do not affect each other’s what?
How many mass distinctions have radically altered the history of life?
The vector sum of all the torques acting on an object is called what?
What determines how strongly an atom attracts electrons to itself?
Looking directly at what celestial object can cause blindness?
The amount of kinetic energy in a moving object depends directly on what two factors?
What is the movement of fluid out of the capillaries called?
The prevalence of cervical cancer in the united states is very low because of regular screening exams called what?
There is a predictable amount of solute that can be dissolved at what?
Carrier proteins bind and carry the molecules across what cell structure?
As per hutton's unconformity, what happened to the intermediate layers of rock?
What kind of summers do humid continental climates have?
Compared to others, what type of liquid has a relatively high surface tension and heat capacity?
Cilia and flagella are extensions of what?
Mercury and lead, which was once widely used in paint and gasoline, are examples of what type of metals?
During karyogamy, the haploid nuclei contributed by the two parents fuse, which produces what?
What is polyisoprene better known as?
Every chemical reaction occurs with a concurrent change in what?
What receives blood in the heart?
Fatty acids, triglycerides, phospholipids, and steroids are examples of what?
Where in the cell does photosynthesis occur?
Sympathetic stimulation also triggers the release of epinephrine and norepinephrine, which enhance both cardiac output and what else?
Not surprisingly, centipedes, millipedes and other members of the subphylum myriapoda are adapted to living on what?
What are found in moist forests that break down decaying plant material?
By breaking down wastes and remains of dead organisms, decomposers perform what function in an ecosystem?
What are sugars broken down into in your digestive system?
Approximately how many weeks does the fetal period last?
Because dizygotic twins develop from two eggs fertilized by two sperm, they are no more identical than siblings born at what?
What is the plasma membrane mainly composed of?
Astronomers have wondered if the universe is expanding fast enough to escape the pull of what?
When someone falls, the kinetic energy the person has upon reaching the floor is the amount of what energy lost by falling through height?
What are protons and neutrons that make up the nucleus of an atom called?
The sun, stars, moon, planets and comets are all type of what objects?
What is the total number of codons?
Solution nodes and antinodes are both areas of wave interference, but they differ in the presence of what condition?
While similar to insects, what eight-legged invertebrates lack antennae or wings?
How many chromosomes do mature gametes contain?
What is the term for land that has permanently frozen soil?
When sparks from a steel grinder react with oxygen, what do they form?
What should you learn that allows you to recognize and avoid the dangers of specific hazards when experimenting, such as flames or broken glass?
Motor vehicles account for almost half of the consumption of what?
Bacterial stis can be cured with what?
Fats are also called triacylglycerols or triglycerides because of their what?
What mammalian structure allows the exchange of gases, nutrients, and other substances between the fetus and mother?
Fossil fuel consumption is a major contributor to global emissions of what gas?
What is the main function of blood?
Biotechnology is the use of biological agents for technological advancement. what two areas are the primary applications of this technology used?
Unlike free-living species of flatworms that are predators or scavengers, what forms feed from the tissues of their hosts?
When heat flows into an object, its thermal energy increases and so does its what?
What are telescopes that use lenses to bend light called?
The science of analyzing tree rings is called what?
Which type of arthritis causes the immune system to attack joints?
A species is a subdivision of a genus in what classification system?
What is the force that pulls particles at the exposed surface of a liquid toward other liquid particles called?
What state is achieved when the body's internal environment is kept more-or-less constant?
Kinetic and potential are two forms of what?
Humans are unique in their ability to alter their environment with the conscious purpose of increasing what, which acts as a limiting factor on populations in general?
A desmosome is a cell structure that anchors the ends of what fibers together?
How much space a surface covers is known as what?
What do aquatic arthropods use to exchange gases?
What kind of rays can travel thousands of meters through air and can penetrate and damage cells deep inside the body?
Of the three types of skeleton designs - hydrostatic skeletons, exoskeletons, and endoskeletons - which do humans possess?
What regulates homeostasis and basic survival behaviors?
What device changes kinetic energy to electrical energy through electromagnetic induction?
What are two nonliving things that all living things need for survival?
The fight or flight response involves what system?
How many types of galaxies are there?
Skin color is controlled by genes but also influenced by exposure to what?
Higher temperatures increase the rate of reaction in a lot of chemical reactions because they increase the frequency of what interaction between reactant particles?
Knees and elbows are examples of what part of the skeletal system?
Einstein’s equation helps scientists understand what happens in nuclear reactions and why they produce so much what?
Ovulation is the release of an egg from the what?
The process in which the nucleus divides is called what?
What is used to recrystallize excess dissolved solute in a supersaturated solution?
Our bodies use what, primarily in the form of glucose, for our immediate energy needs - although they are not as energy dense or capable of long-term storage as lipids?
What part of the body do ants use to detect chemicals?
Water has the properties of cohesion and what else?
Fitness and natural selection are parts of what theory that might describe how organisms change over time?
What three forces are involved in erosion?
Thermodynamics do not give us any insight into what attribute of spontaneous processes?
What is the main source of hydrocarbons?
What is the process of the blastula forming 3 layers of cells called?
How does air pressure change as altitude increases?
In harmonic motion there is always what force, which acts in the opposite direction of the velocity?
Many of the protist species classified into the supergroup excavata are asymmetrical, single-celled organisms with a feeding groove “excavated” from one side. this supergroup includes heterotrophic predators, photosynthetic species, and these?
What is the thick fluid in the space between bones that cushions the joint?
What is the name of the portion of a nucleotide lacking phosphate groups?
The band disappears before metaphase but predicts the future plane of what?
What is a common age-related bone disease in which bone density and strength is decreased?
Bacteria reproduce through what process?
What is the branch of science that studies the physical world?
Osteoclasts break down bone to maintain mineral what?
Which carbohydrates can be classified in terms of chain length?
What is altered by changes in cardiac output by variable contriction of the arterioles?
Eukaryotic cells are cells that contain what?
What distinctive dna shape forms when the two nucleotide chains wrap around the same axis?
The oxygen regions of the water molecules have what kind of charge?
Humans use many compounds that were first discovered or derived from living organisms as medicines: secondary plant compounds, animal toxins, and antibiotics produced by these?
Millipedes and centipedes are the most commonly found examples of what group of arthropods?
Glass breaking is an example of what type of change that doesn't affect the makeup of matter?
Aldehydes, ketones, carboxylic acids, esters, and ethers all have functional groups containing what element?
What forms when an atom gains electrons?
There are several types of wetlands including marshes, swamps, bogs, mudflats, and salt marshes. the three shared characteristics among these types—what makes them wetlands—are their hydrology, hydrophytic vegetation, and this?
What element is typically used to shield things from gamma rays?
What is the combination of tissues that provides a tough, woody external covering on the stems of trees called?
Because microorganisms can go through several generations in a matter of hours, their gene expression profiles adapt to the new laboratory environment very quickly. in addition, the vast majority of bacterial species resist being cultured in this?
Examples of acute forms of what type of diseases include the common cold and influenza?
What do red blood cells carry?
The sympathetic division of the vertebrate autonomic nervous system has evolved the fight-or-flight response to counter stress-induced disruptions of this?
What light-producing process occurs when a substance absorbs shorter-wavelength ultraviolet light and then gives off the energy as visible light?
What lies between the continental shelf and the abyssal plain?
In the first beaker, distilled water does not conduct a current because water is a what?
What is another term for hydraulic fracturing?
In what unit is speed usually measured?
Unlike liver bile, 'juice' produced by what organ is clear and composed mostly of water along with some salts, sodium bicarbonate, and digestive enzymes?
What term means opposition to the flow of electric charges that occurs when electric current travels through matter?
According to law, what must packaged foods carry?
What type of terminal releases neurotransmitters at a synapse?
What chemical affects the onset of puberty and duration?
What are the only plants with a life cycle in which the gametophyte generation is dominant?
What do angiosperms produce?
What should you let liquid waste do before placing the container in the trash?
Mammoths, close genetic relatives of modern elephants, are believed to have gone extinct due to hunting by humans and what factor?
What is the ph level of neutral, pure water?
Which organ system defends the body from pathogens and other causes of disease?
What is the process where scientific articles are checked and analyzed by other scientists before publication?
A mutation is a random change in an organism's what?
Synovial and ball-and-socket are both types of what?
Who invented dynamite in 1866?
Most liquid freshwater is under the ground in layers of what?
What phenotype do gain-of-function mutations usually result in?
What occurs if oxygen cannot be obtained at a sufficient rate?
What are the key to species evolving?
Cancer develops when what process is unregulated?
What are needed to oxidize the noble gases to form compounds in positive oxidation states?
Which muscles raise the hyoid bone, the floor of the mouth, and the larynx during deglutition?
What type of energy is stored in an object because of its position or shape?
Like plants, animals are multicellular what?
A doorknob and a ferris wheel are examples of what type of simple machine?
What do ocean mollusks use to absorb oxygen from the water?
What is paleobotany?
What happens to the level of relative humidity in the evening as air temperature declines?
What term is used to describe a compound that does not conduct an electric current in either aqueous solution or in the molten state?
Peregrine falcons made an incredible recovery after laws were passed banning the use of what?
What pathway in a plant do water and nutrients travel through from the roots to the leaves?
In the tropics what are the prevailing winds called?
How many chromosomes are in a diploid human cell?
Motion of water molecules helps break up interactions between what?
Which cycle is named after the scientist melvin calvin?
What is formed when a subducting plate flows under another tectonic plate?
What force increases a slide downhill and decreases a slide uphill?
Lymphoma is a cancer of a type of what type of cells, called lymphocytes?
What type of eggs do fully terrestrial vertebrates carry?
What is the time since the beginning of the ice ages?
What will the contraction of smooth muscles help organs do?
What is an acid that can be produced from the aerobic fermentation of wine?
Weathering is fundamental to the creation of what, which exists as a very thin layer over solid rock?
What type of weathering causes the minerals in a rock to change?
What is the process in which a liquid changes to a solid?
By pulling out grass by its roots and over-grazing, livestock contribute to what negative process?
What are the three types of isomers?
The chloroplasts contain a green pigment called what?
What state occurs when the amount of solute dissolved exceeds the solubility?
What occurs when spores from two parents fuse and form a zygospore?
Macrophages and dendritic cells are types of what"
What side of a mountain does the rainshadow effect occur on?
Centrioles are a very important part of what?
What is the volume of the molecules of an ideal gas?
What part of the body are eggs formed in?
What is the first digestive organ that food enters?
Soda fizzes when what common gas comes out of solution?
The voltage and current are exactly in phase in a what?
Combining the voltages of the oxidation and reduction half reactions helps to determine what?
What occurs when an unstable nucleus emits a beta particle and energy?
A chemical property describes the ability of a substance to undergo a specific what?
When energy is captured or transformed, it inevitably degrades and becomes what less useful form of energy?
The periodic table is one of the cornerstones of chemistry because it organizes all the known elements on the basis of their what?
What organs filter wastes from blood so they can be excreted from the body?
The tidal forces near what celestial phenomena are so great they can actually tear matter from a companion star?
What are female gonads normally called?
Starch and glycogen, as well as simple sugars like glucose and fructose, can all be categorized broadly as what?
Lipids are biochemical compounds such as fats and?
What is the process of small molecules passing through the plasma membrane called?
What change the physical properties of solvents?
Which human body system is a complex network of nervous tissue that carries electrical messages throughout the body?
What is a sheet of muscle that spreads across the bottom of the rib cage?
What creates charged regions in a water molecule?
Phosphorus exists as several allotropes, the most common being red, black, and what?
What is the term for environmental causes of mutations?
How are classic sedimentary rocks group?
How many eyelid membranes do frogs have?
What is another word for saturated hydrocarbons?
Where is the pressure of gases in the atmosphere at its greatest?
What strong and lightweight manmade material is derived from hydrocarbons and used in ropes, tents and parachutes?
What is the third male reprodutive structure after the penis and testes?
What are considered solid lipids that animals use to store energy?
The small, egg-shaped organs that lie on either side of the uterus are called?
Which competition leads to one species going extinct or both becoming more specialized?
Who discovered that the andromeda nebula is over 2 million light years away
What does every star emit that humans cannot see?
What type pf mining is used to obtain mineral ores that are near the surface?
The external female reproductive structures are referred to collectively as what?
Acid rain may be caused by what?
What process is used to chemically and mechanically break down the food you eat into smaller parts?
What is the study of matter and the changes that material substances undergo.
What occurs when the presence or absence of a specific behavior prevents reproduction from taking place?
Why have rivers in arid regions been reduced to trickles?
Having extra chromosomes or damaged chromosomes can cause what?
What do farmers use greenhouses for?
What is it called when two waves in the same medium pass one another?
Which forests are found throughout the ocean in temperate and arctic climates?
What is the type of cancer in which bone marrow produces abnormal white blood cells that cannot fight infections?
Mechanical energy can also usually be expressed as the sum of kinetic energy and what other kind of energy?
What kind of bonds are forces of attraction between positive metal ions and the valence electrons that are constantly moving around them?
Aldehydes and ketones can work weak hydrogen bonds with water through what atom?
Asexual reproduction in plants is typically an extension of the capacity for what?
A type of what in a cow's gut enables the animal to digest grass?
What basic structures are called the building blocks of life and comprise all living things?
What kind of behavior occurs only after experience or practice and describes most human behaviors?
What is the study of the interaction between matter and energy called?
Prescribed to treat allergies, antihistamines and corticosteroids help control what system that attacks allergens?
The main advantage of urea is its very low what?
What type of blood cells transport oxygen to the tissues so they can function?
What title is used to describe health professionals who use nonsurgical techniques to help patients with musculoskeletal system problems that involve the bones, muscles, ligaments, tendons, or nervous system?
Flowers pollinated by what means generally lack brightly colored parts?
Fog disappears when the water droplets change back to what?
What is the name of the type of combustion engine that you would find in a car?
What must molecules have to be cis-trans isomers?
In physics, work means the use of what to move an object?
Types of radiation that cause cancer include ultraviolet (uv) radiation and what?
How many calories of energy does one gram of sugar or starch provide?
Defecating, urination, and even childbirth involve cooperation between the diaphragm and these?
When we move down a group of elements on the periodic table, what happens to their electronegativity?
What two elements do chloroplasts split water into?
Continuous-flow reactors are chemical reaction vessels in which the what are mixed and allowed to react as they flow along a tube?
What is it called when one or more ending digits are dropped to get the correct number of significant figures?
Hair sticks out from the epidermis, but it grows from the?
The milky way galaxy is which shape type of galaxy?
Atmospheric pressure is low in what anatomically named part of a hurricane?
What occurs when a substance diffuses through a cell membrane without any help from other molecules?
Sodium and chloride ions have equal but what charges?
What is making measurements that are close to the true value known as?
What are muscle cells in the muscles called?
What term means the minimum energy required in order for a collision between molecules to result in a chemical reaction?
What term is used to describe the change in size or volume of a given mass with temperature?
What are created based upon the loss or gain of electrons?
All atoms of the same element have the same number of what?
What kind of chain is formed by subduction of oceanic crust beneath a continental or oceanic plate?
Which kinds of cells have nuclei and other membrane bound organelles?
What regulates the thyroid gland in a body?
Females of what mammalian group have mammary glands but lack nipples?
What helps fungus digest cellulose and other materials found in rotting matter?
In what form of lipids cells store energy for long-term use?
What is used to fluoridate drinking water to promote dental health
Light reactions also release oxygen gas as a what?
What is the term for rain that has a ph less than 5, due to carbon dioxide dissolving?
What gas is released into the atmosphere when fossil fuels are burned?
What are the most energetic of all electromagnetic waves, which can be used to treat cancer?
When does a baby double in length and triple in weight?
Where do the cells in your body get oxygen from?
What type of generations do plants alternate between during a life cycle?
Genetic diversity in a population comes from two main sources - sexual reproduction and what else?
What state of matter completes the list: solid, liquid, gas?
The heart, blood vessels, and blood make up which system in the body?
What unit of measurement is typically used for rainfall?
Which elements fall between metals and nonmetals in the periodic table?
What is it called when bones get longer and bigger?
What kind of reactions are involved in processes ranging from the contraction of muscles to the digestion of food?
Mycorrhizae functions as a physical barrier to what?
What do skeletal muscles enable the body to do?
What is the sum total of all body reactions?
What type of reproduction involves combining genetic material from two parents to create distinct offspring?
What kind of molecule is made from one or more long chains of amino acids?
What part of the heart receives the blood is pumped from veins of the systemic circuit?
What type of properties are characteristics that describe matter?
What is the leading cause of death in the united states?
What results when gas particles rebound off the walls of their container?
How do most fish reproduce with one another?
What is the ability to cause changes in matter?
The group 18 gases that have 8 valence electrons are referred to as what type of gases?
Competition is a relationship between organisms that depend on the same resources. the resources might be food, water, or what?
What does phagocytosis defend the body from?
What measures the force of gravity pulling on an object?
Are coral reefs found in warm or cold water?
In humans, there are five primary tastes, and each taste has only one corresponding type of what?
The large positive free energy change leads to a value that is extremely what?
Slime molds are fungus-like protists that grow as slimy masses on what?
What is the body cavity that reptiles have that is involved in reproduction?
What is the germ for a group of atoms within a molecule that reacts similarly anywhere it appears in different compounds?
During asexual reproduction, fungi produce haploid spores by what process involving a haploid parent cell?
In eukaryotes, oxidative phosphorylation takes place in what?
Short chains of two amino acids (dipeptides) or three amino acids (tripeptides) are also transported actively. however, after they enter the absorptive epithelial cells, they are broken down into their amino acids before leaving the cell and entering the capillary blood via what?
What do fungi use to penetrate deep into decaying matter?
All living cells in multicellular organisms contain an internal cytoplasmic compartment, and a nucleus within the cytoplasm. cytosol, the jelly-like substance within the cell, provides the fluid medium necessary for this?
Under appropriate conditions, the attractions between all molecules in what state will cause them to form liquids or solids?
What else besides temperature has an effect on the phase of a substance?
What type of charge does a neutron have?
Animals that molt their exoskeletons belong to which clade?
Alkaline earth metals are what color?
What type of movement is caused by erosion from direct gravity?
What term is used describe energy released during an earthquake?
What are the rolling motions during an earthquake called?
What is the process that breaks down rocks into smaller pieces?
What is the measurement for the amount of water vapor in the air?
Major exchange pools of carbon include organisms and what else?
When light is absorbed by a material, what may increase?
What branch of physical science looks at how heat, work, and various forms of energy are related to one another?
Connective tissues typically have three characteristic components in common: cells, large amounts of amorphous ground substance, and what else?
After what stage do the last 2 stages of food  processing occur?
What part of the plant holds the plant upright?
What is a circuit that consists of one loop called?
Leaves respond to these environmental stimuli by producing less what?
Mammals that lay eggs are called what?
In what ocean is the mid-atlantic ridge located?
Models may be physical, conceptual, or what else?
What is an organism that spreads bacteria or other pathogens?
What influences the types of plants and animals that inhabit a specific biome?
In the vast majority of ectopic pregnancies, the embryo does not complete its journey to what organ, and instead implants in the uterine tube?
In a single-celled organism such as chlamydomonas, there is no what after fertilization?
Timber, medicines, dyes, oils, and rubber are just some of the useful products humans derive from what?
Differences between organisms reflect differences between their nucleotide sequences rather than between their what?
Lying with their mouths open, a behavior called gaping, probably serves what function for crocodiles?
What type of living things break down dead organisms and recycle their nutrients into the soil?
When food enters the stomach after a period of fasting, a drop in what initiates the conversion of pepsinogen to pepsin?
Mutations that lead to cancer usually occur in genes that control the cell cycle. these include tumor-suppressor genes and what?
What type of environment is maintained in homeostasis?
When calculating impulse, consider the change in _______ of one of the objects in the collision?
What word describes any chemical that affects the body’s structure or function?
The entry of acidic chyme into the duodenum stimulates the release of what?
Adulthood is divided into how many stages?
What is the single bone that forms the posterior skull and posterior base of the cranial cavity?
Is the progeny produced by asexual reproduction stronger or weaker than seedlings produced by sexual reproduction?
Supersaturated solutions of most solids in water are prepared by cooling what?
Bacterial stis usually can be cured with what?
Intensity is defined to be the power per unit area carried by a what?
Trophic level 4 = tertiary consumers that eat what kind of consumers?
What takes the shape of the container they are placed in and have a definite volume?
What is produced when a colorless solution of lead nitrate is added to a colorless solution of potassium iodide?
Due to the difference in the distribution of charge, water is what type of molecule?
What do we call the major artery carrying recently oxygenated blood away from the heart?
In a model of a hemoglobin molecule, the purple part indicates the presence of what element?
What kind of gland produces an oily substance that waterproofs the hair and skin?
Which type of substance is considered a proton donor in a reaction?
What are materials that are good conductors of thermal energy called?
Why do players with more mass often have a larger impact in football?
Corals build hard exoskeletons that grow to become what?
What property is the result of force acting on a given area?
Nervous tissue consists of just two basic types of nerve cells: neurons and?
The plasma membrane of a skeletal muscle fiber is called the what?
What is the force pulling an object downward called?
Which part of all mammals have the same basic bone structure?
The symbol for each what is usually the first letter or two of its name?
The only things that affect the period of a simple pendulum are its length and the acceleration due to gravity. the period is completely independent of other factors, such as this?
What is the amide bond that occurs between the amino nitrogen of one amino acid and the carboxyl carbon of another amino acid?
What encloses the border of animal cells?
Heterotrophic organisms use organic compounds, usually from other organisms, as a source of what basic element of life?
Electrons always result in what?
The diffusion of water across a membrane because of a difference in concentration is called?
Bioluminescence is an example of what type of activity that is carried out by a cell and is precisely coordinated and controlled?
What reflex is commonly tested in newborn infants to establish the presence of neuromuscular function?
All of the monatomic ions have oxidation numbers equal to their?
Unlike plants, animal species rely almost exclusively on what type of reproduction?
Give an example of benthos that live near vents on the deep ocean floor.
What is the distinctive shape of the molecule that contains genetic information?
What is a bread mold and research organism that also grows in the wild on burned vegetation
How do most echinoderms reproduce?
What do all cells have in common?
What do electric motors use to change electrical energy into kinetic?
What are prokaryotic cells filled with?
What is the name of plant-like protists?
A sticky, moist secretion that covers mucous membranes is called what?
What system lets flatworms maintain a proper balance of water and salts?
What gas associated with global warming is released when limestone is heated during the production of cement?
Because their embryos are surrounded by a thin membrane, reptiles are considered what?
What type of energy is clean and does not release greenhouse gases?
Physical and chemical properties of geometric isomers are generally what?
What type of cell has a singular chromosome, no nucleus, and few other organelles?
Protists, fungi, animals, and plants all consist of what kind of cells?
What does magma that cools underground form?
What is used to report the results of scientific measurements?
What is the first digestive organ that food enters?
Insulin is made up of how many polypeptide chains?
What is the term for the energy of movement?
What type of organisms are helpless at birth and require lots of help from their parents?
Metallic bonds allow metals to do what, in the manner of a willow tree?
What is a substance that can not be broken down any further into other substances?
What three characteristics do waves have?
What organ creates bile?
What is the smallest and most fundamental unit of matter, consisting of a nucleus surrounded by electrons?
Mutation of beneficial proto-oncogenes is a prime culprit in what disease?
What happens to charges whenever they are accelerated?
What is it in bone marrow transplants that may cause a graft versus host reaction?
The vagina starts at the vulva and ends where?
Regulatory proteins bind to regulatory elements to control what?
Microfilaments are mostly concentrated just beneath what?
What term is used for any combination of two or more atoms?
What is biomass made into fuel called?
What type of thin lava forms shapes and tubes as it flows?
The nucleolus, which makes ribosomes, is located within what cell structure?
Electrons flow through the electrolyte from the ________ to __________ electrode.
What is the name of the part that connects the vagina with the uterus?
No-till farming is one effort to combat what, caused by typical farming practices?
Geysers are created when what is heated beneath the earth's surface?
Increasing voltage with a higher-volt battery does what to the current?
Hydrogen peroxide will decompose over time to produce _______ gas.
What kind of pipettes are suitable for measuring very small amounts of liquids?
What is the measure of the force of gravity pulling down on an object called?
Boiling points increase with which kind of mass?
The largest absorption of heat comes during the vaporization of what?
What do fungi absorb to get their nutrition?
The variable is the speed of light. for the relationship to hold mathematically, if the speed of light is used in m/s, the wavelength must be in meters and the frequency in what?
A yolk sac replaces what structure for nourishing a marsupial embryo?
What is the pressure of gas in a gas mixture termed?
Making ups about 50 percent of the modern american diet, what food group can be classified according to the number of monomers they contain of simple sugars and/or complex sugars?
What is the process of the fusion of a sperm and an egg called?
What is the motion that moves the forearm from the supinated position to the pronated position?
What organ system consists of the skin, nails and hair?
What does it mean to be a diploid organism?
What do you call the carbohydrate formed when two monosaccharides bond together?
What is the term for a resource that is used in a way that meets the needs of the present without keeping future generations from meeting their needs?
The genes that code for the positive cell cycle regulators are called what?
What are essential for pollination, but  can spread disease and destroy crops?
Branching food chains and complex trophic interactions form what?
The chemical behavior of elements can largely be explained by what?
Metalloids, metals, and nonmetals are all classes of what?
How does air always flow?
What type of invisible waves are used in microwaves?
Which muscular organ pumps blood all around your body?
What causes the changes of puberty?
If a sedimentary rock layer is not horizontal, what is it?
What system, which includes the skin, plays important roles in protection, sensing stimuli and thermoregulation?
What type of plant tissue transports water and dissolved mineral upward to the leaves?
What can lenses be used to make?
Surface tension is a property of matter that is in what state?
Amphibians have permeable skin which allows for the exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide, what is this "breathing called?"
What is the main component of paper, cardboard, and textiles made from cotton, linen, and other plant fibers?
What theory explains the physical behavior of gases?
Only finished mrnas are exported from the nucleus to what?
What is the largest artery in the body called?
What type of change has occurred when a copper penny changes color?
A switch in a circuit controls the flow of what, specifically, within the circuit?
What causes fertilization to occur?
Because they spread seeds, fruits are an agent of what?
Proto-oncogenes normally help regulate what?
The "double helix" shape is associated with what substance found in cells?
What do you call the physical environment in which a species lives and to which it is adapted?
What is the outer core made of?
What type of eukaryotes are protists normally?
An inclined plane is a good example of what kind of machine?
The pressure of a sample of gas is measured with an open-end what?
Bog destruction in scotland is an example of the widespread loss of what kind of habitat?
What part of the plant has a root end and a shoot end?
Hardness, density, color, and melting and boiling points are all considered what types of properties?
Low levels of thyroid hormones in the blood cause the release of what by the hypothalamus and pituitary gland?
The energy changes in what reactions are enormous compared with those of even the most energetic chemical reactions, and they result in a measurable change of mass?
What type of chemistry is the study of the composition of matter?
Scientists did not actually see viruses until what was invented?
Regularly done aerobic activities can help build up endurance and make what vital organ stronger?
What do all chemical sections need to get started?
What do people apply to their lawns that causes water pollution?
What do vertebrates possess that is made up of repeating bony units?
How long does it take for earth to rotate on it's axis one time?
In what system can energy change forms but the total amount of energy stay constant?
What characteristics of an organism help it survive?
The major component of a solution is called what?
What type of pollution is generated by power plants and factories that can directly raise the temperature of water?
Nearly all of what are constructed from a set of just 20 common amino acids?
What takes place when water on earth’s surface changes to water vapor?
The muscles of the anterior neck assist in deglutition also known as what?
Cells infected with viruses secrete what example of early induced proteins, which travel to adjacent cells and induce them to make antiviral proteins, a sacrifice that protects the surrounding cells?
What term is used to describe changes to an organism’s dna and are an important driver of diversity in populations?
Molecules with a carboxyl group are called what?
What type of galaxies have a rotating disk of stars and dust, a bulge in the middle, and several arms?
How is carbon dioxide and water vapor that is produced by cellular respiration released?
What occurs when there are differences in fitness among a population?
A group of living things and their environment is called what?
Iridescent green beetles, known as jewel beetles, change color because of the light-reflecting properties of the cells that make up this?
The effects of which kind of selection are larger than the effects of direct natural selection on individuals?
Superconductors are materials with a resistivity of?
What affects how high a cake rises when it bakes?
Binary fission is an example of which type of production?
What type of field does earth have?
Single bonds allow the atoms they join to rotate freely about the what?
Preserved remains or traces of organisms that lived in the past are known as what?
Co 2 , h 2 o, methane, o 3 , nitrous oxides (no and no 2 ), and chlorofluorocarbons (cfcs) are known as what type of gases?
A black solid by itself, this element is incredibly important because of what it makes when it combines with many other elements, including oxygen?
Radar maps of venus show that it has mountains, canyons and volcanoes surrounded by plains of what?
Bones are part of which body system?
Name the 2 types of carbohydrates?
The lungs are a series of ever-narrowing tubes that end in a myriad of tiny sacs called what?
Fish and other aquatic organisms use gills to capture dissolved what?
What phase of a human life does not have a definite starting point?
Where do all plants come from?
The esophagus runs a mainly straight route through the mediastinum of what?
What chambers are responsible for pumping blood out of the heart?
What's the term for the period during which women's ovaries stop producing eggs?
What is the set of steps that scientists use to learn about the world?
Which are the closest living relations to land plants?
In vertebrates, what structure runs from the brain to the tail end of the backbone?
What is it called when the chance that a certain event will occur?
What is the hardest of all minerals?
When bread bakes, yeast releases which gas?
What nervous tissue cells play a supporting role to neurons?
Use of oil-consuming bacteria to clean up an oil spill is an example of what?
What is the process called in which living things produce offspring?
What are the building blocks of peptides?
The pull of the moon’s gravity on earth is the main cause of what water phenomenon?
What happens to evolution when equilibrium is reached within the genes of the population?
Prostaglandins worsen what by increasing nociceptor sensitivity to noxious stimuli?
The outer surface of the heart changes from positive to negative during what?
What are the closest relatives to modern angiosperms?
Heating a gas gives its particles more of what type of energy?
What is the term for long carbohydrate molecules of repeated monomer units joined together by glycosidic bonds?
What is the only known planet with large amounts of water?
What is the disease in which bones lose mass and become more fragile and likely to break?
What speeds up the reactions of chemical digestion?
In how many states does water exist on earth?
Find the overall magnification of what instrument by finding the magnification of the objective, then the magnification of the eyepiece?
Insects have a highly specialized type of respiratory system called what?
What are the two main minerals found in ocean water?
Which form of digestion is a purely physical process that does not change the chemical nature of the food?
What was the early study of chemistry called?
What are used to balance chemical equations?
What kind of core does mercury have?
Physical features on the earth's surface are known as ______
"direct" and "alternating" are two kinds of what, which is associated with electricity?
What is a strombolian eruption named for?
Which part of the plant conduct water and minerals as well as anchor the plant.
Ice caps are found only in greenland and which other place?
During a what type of reaction do chemical changes take place?
In mammals, the cells on the exterior form the trophectoderm, which goes on to form what?
In sexual reproduction, what is the name of the gamete cell the male must contribute?
The term "environment of deposition" is useful for understanding the characteristics of what type of rock?
Apical dominance, seed germination, gravitropism, and resistance to freezing are all positively influenced by what type of chemicals in plants?
In the nasal cavity, what 2 things trap particles from incoming air?
Elemental carbon is a black, dull-looking solid that conducts heat and this?
Who created the periodic table?
What are unique in having adaptive immunity in addition to innate immunity?
All three axes are established before the zygote begins to undergo what?
Because they are charged (polar), these ions do not diffuse through what?
What are complex organic molecules that make up cells?
A light bulb converts electrical energy to light and what?
What are chemical bonds between atoms of nonmetals that share valence electrons called?
What piece of technology can you use to see infrared light?
Lenses make use of what to create images?
What do animals observe in others to help solve problems?
Reef sponges typically have what type of beneficial relationships with other reef species?
Where is the only place an electric charge can be found?
What part of a cell do proteins travel to to be modified for the specific job they will do?
When current flows in just one direction, what is it called?
An ammeter must be connected in series with what to allow it to accurately measure the current flow without causing any disruptions?
What combines with rain to form acid rain?
Bacterial stis include chlamydia, gonorrhea, and syphilis are diseases that can usually be cured with what?
Rubbing your hands together warms them by converting work into what energy?
What is the opposite of nuclear fusion?
What are the three classifications of elements?
Worms use a hydrostatic type of what anatomical structure to move through their environment?
What flexible organ enables swallowing and speech?
What is a wall of rocks or concrete called?
What are the special mating behaviors in birds called?
What kind of charges do protons give the nucleus?
What happens when a cell takes in substances through its membrane?
What are compounds formed by ionic bonds called?
What kind of diagrams can be used to illustrate electron movements and ion formation?
What always continues in a red supergiant?
Glycolysis, the krebs cycle, and the electron transport chain are stages in what process?
Sex-linked traits are located on genes on what chromosomes?
What nerves attached to the brain are mainly responsible for motor and sensory functions?
What would you need to see most cells?
The intermolecular structure of what has spaces that are not present in liquid water?
Some compounds form rigid frameworks called what?
What type of relationship is it when one variable increases the other variable decreases?
What is the term for polyatomic ligands with two or more donor atoms?
A single, often oversimplified, path through which energy and matter flow through an ecosystem is also known as what?
Oncogenes are involved in the formation of what disease?
The lack of annihilation radiation coming to us from space proves that the universe is dominated by what?
Dinitrophenol (dnp) is an uncoupler that makes the inner mitochondrial membrane leaky to protons. it was used until 1938 as a what?
Melanocytes are located in which layer of the epidermis?
Soils with higher capacities generally have a larger reserve of what?
Materials that are good conductors of thermal energy are called?
Composite cones are steep-sided, cone-shaped types of what, which produce explosive eruptions?
Deficiency of what is symptomized by nausea, fatigue and dizziness, and can be triggered by excessive sweating?
Most thoracic vertebrae have two facets that articulate with the head of what structure?
Thrombocytes are more commonly known by what name?
What is the term for the remains or traces of living organisms?
What type of disease is caused by pathogens?
Worms grow to adult size without going through what stage?
What serves as a first responder to pathogenic threats that bypass natural physical and chemical barriers of the body?
Of the three basic types of emissions, which has the highest penetrating power?
True animals are divided into those with radial versus bilateral styles of what?
While still an early fetus, what is the skeleton made of?
What forms the pathway of water and nutrients from roots to leaves and flower?
What proteins span the entire plasma membrane?
Why is blue cheese blue?
What type of joint are ball-and-socket, hinge, and pivot examples of?
Are valence electrons attracted more or less strongly when they are farther from the nucleus?
What do we call the predictable distribution of molecular speeds found in gas of many molecules?
Name the simple sugar that is a component of starch.
What do vertebrates have which invertebrates do not?
Occuring throughout the lifespan of the organism, what stages proceed in a certain order?
The fetus is connected to what by a tube called the umbilical cord?
What are most fresh fruits, vegetables, whole grains rich in?
What term tells you how quickly the angle changes and can occur in either clockwise or counterclockwise directions?
What term is used to describe how fast a chemical reaction occurs?
What is the term for protists that produce spores, such as the toxoplasm?
Why does neptune's appearance change?
Changing levels of what substances partly explain emotional ups and downs in teens?
What term refers to larger evolutionary changes that result in new species?
What do you call a lens that causes the light rays to bend away from its axis?
Diffusion can occur across a semipermeable membrane, such as the cell membrane, as long as a what exists?
Scientists use what scale to illustrate the order in which events on earth have happened?
What will happen if the gas particles inside an inflated balloon suddenly stop moving?
What are the major sites of gibberellin production?
What is required for interconversion between the two forms of an isomeric pair?
Bacteria reproduce through what process, where the chromosome copies itself, forming two genetically identical copies?
Water molecules are polar, so they form what type of bonds?
The cecum is the first part of what structure, where wastes in a liquid state enter from the small intestine?
What are the "levels" in a food chain or web called?
Are bones considered living or dead tissues?
What forms when water in the atmosphere condenses on dust particles suspended in the air?
What are the two types of fermentation?
Aging occurs as cells lose their ability to do what?
What is it called when liquid water falls from the sky?
Applying a pressure greater than the osmotic pressure of a solution will do what?
The molecule pictured above is thyroxine, a compound produced by which gland?
Birds generally practice what kind of relationship, with both parents helping to care for the young?
Gravitropism ensures that roots grow into the soil and that shoots grow toward what?
What is the mass of one mole of any given substance?
The corona surrounds which major object in our solar system?
Respiration that occurs in the cells is called?
Metabolism is an emergent property of life that arises from orderly interactions between what?
During cellular respiration, carbons from the glucose molecule are changed back into what gas?
How does the distance between galaxies change as the universe expands?
Rainwater absorbs carbon dioxide (co 2 ) as it falls. the co 2 combines with water to form what?
Most molecular compounds that have a mass similar to water are in what state of matter at room temperature?
What do you call the movement of molecules across a membrane without the input of energy?
Opposite charges attract and like charges do what?
What molecules are usually insoluble in water?
What occurs when there is a sudden discharge of static electricity between a cloud and the ground?
If citrate accumulates in mitochondria, some of it passes into where and inhibits phosphofructokinase?
For most of a star’s life, hydrogen atoms fuse to form what?
What two ways do channels respond during membrane depolarization?
What kind of compound, contained in coffee and alcohol, increases urine volume?
In mammals what does the zona pellucida protect?
What type of vertebrates control body temperature to just a limited extent from the outside by changing behavior?
Worldwide, viruses seem to play a role in what percentage of the cases of human cancer?
Elements are pure substances that make up what?
What reproductive part is stored in a plant's pollen?
Atoms of what element ultimately form in a red supergiant?
What are the two types of fats?
What structure consists of an outer layer of cells called the trophoblast and an inner cell mass called the embryoblast?
Metabolic pathways are a series of reactions catalyzed by multiple what?
What causes eutrophication to occur?
What do you call the separation of ions that occurs when a solid ionic compound dissolves?
What is light with wavelengths shorter than visible light called?
How much distance can beta particles travel through air?
What is created when the warm air at the cold front rises and creates a low pressure cell, causing winds to rush into the low pressure?
People with osteoporosis have an increase risk of what?
What is the main artery of the systematic circulation called?
The length that an object has travelled in one or multiple directions can also be called what?
In animals, what process occurs only in germ cells, which are in the ovaries or testes?
Which theory describes the benzene molecule and other planar aromatic hydrocarbon molecules as hexagonal rings of sp2-hybridized carbon atoms with the unhybridized p orbital of each carbon atom perpendicular to the plane of the ring?
What type of carbon dioxide levels have been rising for the past several decades?
Freezing rain that falls from the sky is also called?
Do waves move faster when particles are close to each other or far away?
Adult bees include workers, a queen and what other type?
Name the law that determines as to which rock layers are younger or older than others.
Since the electric field lines point radially away from the charge, they are perpendicular to what?
What are in leaves that function as solar collectors and food factories?
What is the process of producing eggs in the ovary is called?
What term refers to the deliberate prevention of pregnancy?
Homologous chromosomes move toward what poles?
Why are the stems of many xerophytes fleshy?
Most body fluids that you release from your body contain chemicals that kill pathogens. for example, mucus, sweat, tears, and saliva contain enzymes called?
What is at the top of the mesosphere?
Yogurt is made from milk fermented with what type of organism?
What happens to an animal's telomeres as it ages?
Characterized by uncontrolled growth, cancerous cells are also called what?
Historically, malaria has rivaled what as the leading cause of human death by infectious disease?
When the number of electrons and the number of protons are equal, the object is what?
The angle of refraction depends on the index of what?
Systems are in thermal equilibrium when they have the same of what measurement?
What needs to be increased to change a solid into a liquid or gas?
Minerals that are not compounds consist of a single what?
What globular protein is used in the construction of the hollow tube?
Two important types of energy that can be converted to one another include potential and what?
What is the diffusion of water through a semipermeable membrane according to the concentration gradient of water across the membrane
What are the key cells of an immune response?
Darwin found that, since all species are related to each other and some of them evolve together, so they develop similar what?
Newly formed what aggregates into threads that form the framework of the clot?
The general term peptide refers to an amino acid chain of what?
Average global temperature has been doing what for the past several decades?
What disease is caused when the oomycete plasmopara viticola parasitizes grape plants?
What is the diploid number for fruit flies?
An example of irreversible denaturation of what substance occurs to the liquid albumin when an egg is fried?
In an environment, symbiosis, competition, and relying on other organisms for food are examples of what?
What is another term for ghost sharks?
What makes the realized niche of chthamalus much smaller than its fundamental niche?
Red stars are the coolest; which are the hottest?
Which type of muscle is most common in the human body?
What is the name for a combination of elements that acts as a different substance?
Volcanoes can be active, dormant, or what else?
Vesicular transport includes exocytosis and what?
What supports the scapula, transmits the weight and forces from the upper limb to the body trunk, and protects the underlying nerves and blood vessels?
What are the three fundamental phases of matter?
What system in the human body makes white blood cells that protect the body from diseases?
Which process or force pulls rocks apart?
What rigid layer surrounds the cell membrane of a plant cell?
When does internal reflection occur?
What is the fourth planet from the sun?
Which region of dna consists of one or more genes that encode the proteins needed for a specific function?
Members of the genus trypanosoma are flagellate protozoa that cause what?
The major salivary enzyme is called?
Who first discovered the moons of jupiter in 1610?
Fossil records show that what process may occur in "fits and starts"?
What part of the ear is often described as a bony labyrinth?
Enzymes speed up the rate of a specific chemical reaction and is therefore known as what?
What is required to break bonds in reactants?
Organs are made up of two or more types of what?
During what type of reproduction do two haploid gametes join in the process of fertilization to produce a diploid zygote?
What does the ground tissue consist mostly of in the stems of both monocots and eudicots?
What type of wave is visible light?
What catalyzes the hydrolysis of amino acids from the n-terminal end of a protein?
Which group of species is defined as having moist skin without scales?
Where are integral proteins embedded?
Skeletal muscles are attached to bones by what?
The duodenum, the jejunum, and the ileum are the main regions of which organ?
Temperature and pressure affect changes in phases or states of what?
The water in some springs are hot because they're heated by what?
What consists of all the living things and nonliving things interacting in the same area?
How much can the bacteria in your gut weigh?
As a myotube is formed from many different myoblast cells, it contains many nuclei, but has a continuous what?
When thinking of the rate at which two gases mix, it is inverse proportional to the density of what?
What serious sti can damage the heart, brain and other organs or even cause death, if untreated?
When a seed is produced by apomixis, the embryo develops without what?
When an oxidation number of an atom is decreased in the course of a redox reaction, that atom is being what?
A venule is an extremely small vein, generally 8–100 micrometers in diameter. postcapillary venules join multiple capillaries exiting from a capillary bed. multiple venules join to form what?
The active site can only bind certain what?
In a food chain, what group of organisms breaks down animal remains and wastes to get energy?
What is the term for organisms that have adaptations to both salty and basic conditions?
What organism is the most disruptive towards the diversity of other species?
Migration and hibernation are examples of behaviors that occur on what temporal basis?
What are all of the living or once-living aspects of the environment called?
Temporal and spatial summation at the axon hillock determines whether a neuron generates what?
What two systems are the lungs part of?
What occurs in a formerly inhabited area that was disturbed?
What can demonstrate the decrease in energy, biomass or numbers within an ecosystem?
What evolutionary concept characterizes a species by body shape and other structural features?
What determines the unique sequence for every protein?
By breaking down organic matter, roundworms play an important role in which cycle?
In the lungs, oxygen diffuses out of the alveoli and into where?
What term is used to describe animals that excrete ammonia?
The numbers and types of species in most ecosystems change to some degree through time and this is called?
The enormous number of species is due to the tremendous variety of what?
What is the energy needed to start a reaction between catalysts and reactants called?
Which proteins bind to the surfaces of microorganisms and are particularly attracted to pathogens that are already tagged by the adaptive immune system?
What type of competition occurs between members of the same species?
Alternation of generations is characteristic of the life cycle of all what?
What carries the instructions from the nucleus to the cytoplasm?
What is measured using units pascal, bar, atmosphere or mmhg?
What is a disease that can be spread from animals to humans called?
Where does most of the mass for an atom reside?
When electric current flows through a wire, it creates what type of field that surrounds the wire in circles?
What is the outermost layer of the skin?
What is it called when waves spread out as they travel around obstacles or through openings in obstacles?
What is the process of oxidized iron that has been exposed to air and water?
What consists of one or two closed loops through which current can flow?
What muscle is imperative to breathing in helping the air move in and out of the lungs?
What third property is different if two boxes have the same volume but one has greater mass?
What occurs when two opposite charges are separated by some amount of distance?
What is the term for the span in the life of an organism from one generation to the next?
Deposition also occurs when a stream or river empties into a large body of what?
What is the process called in which nutrients pass into the bloodstream?
The colloquial term "ribbon worm" refers to the mostly marine species of what phylum?
The number, size, shape, and banding pattern of chromosomes make them easily identifiable in a karyogram and allow for the assessment of many chromosomal
The logistics of carrying out cellular metabolism sets limits on what physical property of the cell?
What large dwarf planet in our solar system was only discovered in 2005?
Covalent bond energies can be used to estimate the enthalpy changes of what?
What type of waste is eliminated from the body through the anus?
Fungi cause three different types of human illness: poisonings, parasitic infections, and what?
If you find dna floating in a cell's cytoplasm, what kind of organism is it?
Graded potentials are temporary changes in what, the characteristics of which depend on the size of the stimuli?
How many different types of taste neurons does the tongue contain?
Deer ticks are vectors for the bacteria that cause what disease?
What is established by the ph differences between the two sides of the blastoderm cells?
During metamorphosis, most salamander species go through what aquatic stage on the way to becoming adults?
What is a purification process where the components of a liquid mixture are vaporized and then condensed and isolated?
What gas comprises about three-fourths of earth's atmosphere?
The lymphatic system helps return fluid that leaks from the blood vessels back to what system?
Light is energy that travels in the form of what type of wave?
Naphthalens is a chemical which is commonly used in what?
What substances are secreted by specialized cells usually located in endocrine glands?
Chlorine and bromine gases released into the atmosphere have helped damage what layer of the atmosphere?
Which kind of vertebrates are amphibians?
What type of forces are involved when deposited rock forms deltas or barrier islands?
Vertebrates differ from invertebrates because they lack this?
The fluid surrounding cells is hemolymph in insects and other animals with an open type of what system?
Whan an alkene is aquired by an alkyl halide in an organic reaction, what kind of reaction is this?
What is the process by which undigested food leaves the body?
Because of its composition, oil does not do what in water?
Linked genes are located on the same what?
What move the body by contracting against the skeleton?
In what energy industry process are fluids pumped through a borehole, creating fractures in the rock that contains the natural gas?
What counter provides a sensitive means of detecting radioactivity?
What do stored fats provide our body with for later use?
What long molecules are composed of chains of units called monomers?
Where does an object gain or lose it's energy to during travel through a potential difference?
Where do biochemical reactions take place?
When fuel is burned, most of the energy is released in what form?
How are voltmeters placed in the circuit?
What is an attitude of doubt about the truthfulness of claims that lack empirical evidence?
Cardiovascular disease, some types of cancer, type 2 diabetes, and obesity are considered what kind of preventable diseases?
What process is the primary function of the branching internal tubules called protonephridia?
Which law means that the simplest of competing theories is most likely to be correct?
Iron will do what when it is exposed to oxygen and water?
About how many days does it take the moon to make one orbit around the earth?
The most common two-lens telescope, like the simple microscope, uses lenses of what shape?
Glucose, galactose, and fructose are all what?
Which property can you study by comparing the mass of an object relative to its size?
What term means the percent by mass of each element in a compound?
The combined gas law involves three properties of a gas - volume, absolute temperature, and what?
What is the force of attraction that holds together positive and negative ions?
In the lungs, bicarbonate is transported back into the red blood cells in exchange for what?
What is defined as an organism in the earliest stages of development?
Microevolution occuring and taking place over many generations results in?
What do craters and rifts become when they fill with water?
What system carries messages from sense organs and internal organs to the central nervous system?
What disease is described as a respiratory disorder characterized by wheezing, coughing, and a feeling of constriction in the chest?
What is used to darken images of the sky?
A tumor of what gland can cause hypersecretion of growth hormone?
After the blood in the pulmonary capillaries becomes saturated with oxygen, it leaves the lungs and travels where?
Depending on the surrounding conditions, normal matter usually exists as one of three phases: solid, liquid, or this?
What celestial bodies are classified by color and temperature, ranging from blue to red and hottest to coolest?
What carries small pollen grains farther than they otherwise would go?
What do rocket-based systems use to propel itself into space?
What term simply means sensitive beyond normal levels of activation?
The hypothalamic releasing and inhibiting hormones are secreted near capillaries at the base of the what?
A microscope can be made from two of what kind of lenses?
What produces almost one-half of the earth's oxygen through photosynthesis?
What is said to occur when both traits appear in a heterozygous offspring?
What type of response do signal transductions within target cells bring about?
What happens to meteors as they fall through the mesosphere?
What are the three main types of rocks?
What is the only continent without amphibians?
A hair grows out of a follicle and passes through what before extending above the skin surface?
What are the long, thin structures that protrude from the cell membrane and help single-celled organisms move or swim towards food?
What is the unit of evolution?
What occurs where the water motion slows?
The force on a charged particle in a magnetic field is always perpendicular to both its velocity vector and the?
What is the process of removing wastes and excess water from the body called?
What is the skeleton of the cell?
A salt concentration of 32 percent is nearly ten times that of what abundant resource?
Atoms of one element can be transformed into another through which process?
Blood from the body enters what chamber of the heart before it is pumped to the right ventricle and then to the lungs?
Dna replication, chromosome segregation, and the separation into two daughter cells are steps in what process?
In science, what is defined as the transfer of energy from a vibrating object in waves that travel through matter?
Where in the cell does transcription occur?
Hydrogen peroxide is commonly sold as a 3% by volume solution for use as a what?
In plants, pigment molecules absorb only visible light for photosynthesis. the visible light seen by humans as white light actually exists in a what?
When an acid and base solutions react, they produce water and a neutral ionic compound known as what?
In the body, oxygen is used by cells of the body’s tissues and carbon dioxide is produced as what?
Chemical digestion in the small intestine cannot occur without the help of the pancreas and what bile-producing organ?
What property are alkali metals at room temperature?
What is the name of the smallest planet in our solar system, which is also nearest to the sun?
All gymnosperm species and many eudicot species undergo what?
Slow-twitch or fast-twitch and oxidative or glycolytic describe what type of fibers?
Plants have a touch response known as what?
What is at the center of our solar system?
The different types of what systems work together to carry out all the life functions of the individual?
Why is uranus so faint?
Which systems work together to provide cells with the oxygen they need for cellular respiration?
What organs have tiny tubes leading to and from elastic air sacs that improve airflow and oxygen uptake?
What is produced when sulfur and oxygen combine?
A skeleton that consists of hard, mineralized structures located within the soft tissue of organisms is called what?
What evolutionary process does not favor altruistic behavior that causes the death of the altruist?
In seed plants, after fertilization, what will the ovule eventually develop into?
What is the message sent from the nucleus to the ribosome?
The phagocytes that are part of the body’s second line of defense attack any of what that they encounter?
Fungi are no longer classified as what, possessing cell walls made of chitin rather than cellulose?
What kind of compounds are named for their positive metal ion first, followed by their negative nonmetal ion?
Endoscopes are used to explore the body through various orifices or these?
Bread has little holes in it from carbon dioxide produced by what?
What unit are atomic radii typically measured in?
What are fungus like protists?
Alpha, beta, and gamma emissions are associated with what kind of energy?
Transport of nutrients and regulation of body temperature through fluid flow are characteristics of which bodily system?
What are the two components of a mixture called?
Insulin is produced by what cells of the pancreas?
What is the arch called that forms when plasma of the sun flows along the loop that connects sunspots?
What does some amphibians have as juveniles but not as adults living on land?
Ejaculation occurs when muscle contractions propel sperm from where?
Adult sea stars have what kind of symmetry?
The four types of light receptors include different types of cones and what else?
In what do substances combine chemically to form a new substance?
What is the colorless gas with a sharp, pungent odor used in smelling salts?
Groupings of related organs in the human body are referred to as "organ" what?
The enzymes that participate in fatty acid catabolism are located in what?
Which organ of the body do large tapeworms attack or block?
The sternum and 12 pairs of ribs with their costal cartilages make up what?
Which lipid is mainly responsible for narrowing arteries and causing the disease atherosclerosis?
Physical or chemical changes are generally accompanied by a transfer of what?
What is the term for a dynamic equilibrium that is maintained in body tissues and organs?
What has a pseudocoelom and hydrostatic skeleton?
In what two ways are volcanic eruptions characterized?
Each enhancer is made up of short dna sequences called what?
For a star to form, what force pulls gas and dust into the center of the nebula?
What do you call elements that contain only atoms of one type of element?
The organ systems of the body work together to carry out life processes and maintain what?
This process of combining the wave functions for atomic orbitals is called what?
Carbon is a nonmetal with a significantly higher electronegativity; it is therefore more likely to accept electrons in what kind of reaction?
What is denoted by the number above the chemical symbol of each element in a modern periodic table?
What does the tires meeting the road cause when a car accelerates?
What gas is contributing to the greenhouse effect?
A complex interactions of hormones result in an edible fruit that entices animals that help disperse what?
What are the cells caused that parasites spread through their host?
When can mutations occur in genes?
The sites of protein synthesis are tiny structures called?
Mollusks, annelids, and arthropods are considered what?
One of the simplest machines is the lever, which is a rigid bar pivoted at a fixed place called what?
In essence, a virus is simply a nucleic acid surrounded by what?
How does the number of protons compare to the number of electrons in an electrically neutral atom?
The scientific method is a method of research with defined steps that include experiments and careful what?
The protist life cycle benefits by including what forms of reproduction?
With what does cytokinins act in concert to stimulate cell division and influence the pathway of differentiation?
Puberty and other physical changes occurs during which stage of development?
What makes organic compounds ubiquitous is the chemistry of their what?
What type of drugs can increase water loss by interfering with the recapture of solutes and water from the forming urine?
This type of tissue consists of bundles of xylem and phloem and transports fluids throughout the plant.
What is the scientific name of the thighbone, the longest, heaviest, and strongest bone in the body?
What determines which type of precipitation falls?
Algae is a promising alternative to traditional crops for what type of fuels?
Cancers derived from epithelial cells are referred to as what?
Vibrating objects such as drumheads produce what?
What two element makes up a hyrdocarbon?
What are monosaccharides and disaccharides also called?
Terrestrial biomes are associated with land, while aquatic ones are associated with what?
Different shapes often correlate with different what in cells?
What structure is found at the top of the head of the sperm that helps it penetrate and fertilize the egg?
What makes up most of  biological tissues?
What occurs when some substances change chemically to other substances?
What type of butterfly do birds avoid eating since it makes them sick?
Birds possess a cloaca, a structure that allows water to be reabsorbed from waste back into this?
What contain organelles common to other cells, such as a nucleus and mitochondria, and also have more specialized structures, including dendrites and axons?
Hurricanes and winter storms both develop from what, which often form when the jet stream dips south in the winter?
Which body system controls all the others by sending electrical messages?
What occurs when water on the surface changes to water vapor?
What is the position of rock layers and the relative ages called?
What is the field of biology that focuses on the study of inheritance in humans?
The acidity of a solution is typically assessed experimentally by measurement of its what?
Where is chemical energy stored?
What kind of fuels include coal, oil, and natural gas?
What do you call the slope that forms the edge of the continent?
What do contour lines that are close together indicate?
What is the most common type of cancer developed in children?
How many chambers are in the heart?
The central vacuole maintains turgor pressure against what?
In the small intestine, chyme mixes with bile, which emulsifies what substances?
Which electromagnetic waves are the most energetic of all electromagnetic waves?
Glycolysis harvests chemical energy by oxidizing glucose to what?
What is the term for the most abundant species in a community, characterized by high competitive abilities?
Salt-water biomes in the ocean are called what?
What occurs before the endometrium thickens in estrous cycles?
Structures like the human tail bone and whale pelvis are called what?
Hazardous waste is material that is toxic, chemically active, corrosive, or what?
Which component of the electron transport chain does cyanide inhibit?
Diseases of this system include epilepsy, strokes, and alzheimer’s disease
About how full is the outer energy level in metalloids?
Which chemical element is the basis of all life on earth?
What structures of the cardiovascular system help regulate body processes by either constricting or dilating?
What is the term for the class of ectothermic, four-legged vertebrates that produce amniotic eggs?
The goal of proteomics is to identify or compare what substances expressed from a given genome under specific conditions, study the interactions between them, and use the information to predict cell behavior or develop drug targets?
Radiometric dating methods, such as carbon-14 dating depend on what type of decay?
What is the brightest star in the orion constellation?
Which organelle specific to plant cells is responsible for photosynthesis?
What is another word for thermal energy?
Roots grow in length and width from the primary and secondary what?
What often form symbiotic associations with much larger organisms?
Name the fever that is caused by a virus that has antigens similar to molecules in human heart tissues.
What is the smallest planet in our solar system?
What is the term for when a substance boils and changes to gas?
Where are hormones released?
The union of gametes is called?
What type of behavior occurs naturally in all animals of a given species?
What parts of comets make them easy to see?
What gives the body shape and support?
What do you call sound that has a wave frequency higher than the human ear can detect?
Plants not only contribute food but what else for organisms?
Substances that act as both weak acids and bases are said to be what?
What is the medical process of removing wastes and excess water from the blood by diffusion and ultrafiltration called?
What is the "a" horizon commonly known as?
What are the building blocks of life?
The amount of energy needed to raise the temperature of one gram of liquid water by 1°c is also known as?
What helps amplify the effects of extracellular signals?
What units are typically used to measure heats of reaction?
What are solutions that maintain a relatively constant ph when an acid or a base is added?
Along with dna, what is the other main type of nucleic acid?
Glutathione is a low-molecular-weight compound found in living cells that is produced naturally by what?
What work together in pairs to bend or straighten a joint?
What are the outer-shell electrons of an atom called?
What kind of reproduction is vegetative reproduction?
What type of tissue runs the length of a stem in vascular bundles?
Birds have a relatively large heart and a rapid what?
When a warm air mass becomes trapped between two cold air masses, what type of front occurs?
What is water falling from the sky called?
What forms when atoms share or transfer valence electrons?
Which part of the axon has a higher membrane potential?
A diploid zygote is formed when one sperm does what?
As ph increases what happens to a solution?
What is the term for changes in speed or direction, changes that make a roller coaster ride so exciting?
What do aquatic mollusk species use for respiration?
Because the solute is moving down the concentration gradient, and no input of energy is required, facilitated diffusion is considered what type of transport?
What does fiber help keep at normal levels in the body?
What is it called when plant roots absorb liquid water and release water vapor into the atmosphere?
Fossil fuels and nuclear power are what type of resource?
The stoichiometric coefficients indicate the relative amounts of what?
Blood enters the heart in what valve?
What works through chemical reactions that change the rock?
What is necessary for new alleles to be created?
What does the placenta sustain during pregnancy?
Other than nitrogen, which nutrient most often limits marine production?
What astronomical phenomenon is often comprised of remnants of the earliest material that formed in the solar system?
Minerals are grouped based on what?
What is the term for the average number of individuals in a population for a given area?
What is the shape of the thyroid gland?
Instead of using their nose, reptiles can use what organ to smell scents?
How does the diaphragm look like when it is at rest?
What is the smallest unit of matter that still maintains it's properties of being an element?
Evolution occurs by what process whereby better-adapted members pass along their traits, according to darwin?
In flowering plants, male gametophytes are in grains of what?
How many different ways can molecules pass through a phospholipid membrane?
Snow and rain are forms of what weather?
There is a positive correlation between the ability to conduct thermal energy and what other energy, as exemplified by metals?
Most ocean waves are caused by what?
What kind of climates are found at or near the equator?
The uranium series is a chain constituting one what, which encompass naturally occurring isotopes of the heaviest elements?
Producing light without a high temperature is called?
Mutualism is a symbiotic relationship that has what effect on both species involved?
What do you call chemical reactions that take place inside living things?
What types of blood cells are required for aerobic respiration?
The phase transition of a substance changing from a liquid state to a gaseous state is an example of what?
What is the fracture called when rocks on both sides move?
In heart muscle, what released by neurons activates a signal transduction pathway?
What do some plants produce that protects dormant seeds and aids in their dispersal?
In a generator, work done to turn the coil is converted to what type of energy?
What do you call a pattern of stars in the night sky?
An antigen is a macromolecule that reacts with components of what?
The measure of a substances entropy at 25 degrees celsius is known as it's?
Gastric emptying is regulated by both the stomach and what other digestive structure?
What is the type of cell division where the number of chromosomes is reduced in half?
What is the most common cause of lung cancer?
Some consumers such as the mushroom get their energy from what?
What does the second number in a blood pressure reading measure?
The rock of the mantle is mostly what?
Ocean ridges formed by marine invertebrates living in warm shallow waters within the photic zone of the ocean are called what?
What compound is formed when there are sparking electrical equipment?
What is the number of protons in the nucleus?
What organism is at the top of the energy pyramid?
What structure of the heart receives oxygen-poor blood from the body, then pumps the blood into the right ventricle?
Which organelle is often compared to a post office, moving proteins and lipids to where they need to go?
What takes both the shape and the volume of their container?
What is the lowest level of organization that can perform all activities required for life?
Where are most of the organs contained in insects?
The appendicular skeleton is made up of all bones of the upper and lower what?
What can be thought of as the capacity a device has for storing charge?
What do electromagnetic receptors detect?
Nutrients from food are absorbed by the blood for transport around the body as part of what system?
What occurs when plants release water vapor through stomata (leaf pores)?
The stomach mucosa’s epithelial lining consists only of surface mucus cells, which secrete a protective coat of what?
A substance too big to be pumped across the cell membrane may enter or leave the cell by what method?
What is the process in which unstable nuclei become stable by emitting particles and energy and changing to different elements called?
Most taste buds on the tongue are associated with nipple-shaped projections called what?
What is the lowest energy state of the atom called?
What kind of diseases involve the immune system accidentally attacking healthy body cells?
Bacteria may divide several what an hour?
The partial pressure of each gas in a mixture is proportional to its what?
The combination decomposition or rearrangement of elements and compounds to form new substances is known as?
When is melatonin secreted?
In which phase do the chromosomes duplicate?
Which muscle is a band-like muscle that extends from the anterior superior iliac spine to the medial side?
Filter feeders, such as sponges, pump water into their body through what structures?
What are ionic solutes?
As with other organic compounds that form hydrogen bonds, water solubility of amines is reflected in the length of what?
What is the tubular passageway through which the embryo or fetus leaves the mother’s body during birth?
What has the average global temperature done since the 1900s?
An solid object with an irregular shape can be measured via what method?
Deterioration of limestone occurs more rapidly as the concentration of what increases?
In which order does the reactivity of halogen group decline?
Photosynthesis converts carbon dioxide and water into what?
Which genetic disorder results in the inability of melanocytes to produce melanin?
Most diseases caused by bacteria can be cured by which medicines?
What season do the largest waves for surfers typically come?
The peripheral nervous system has major nerves that travel through every part of the body except which two places?
Each nitrogenous base has one or two rings that include which atoms?
Pluto's orbit is so elliptical that sometimes it is inside the orbit of which planet?
More than half the compounds produced by the chemical industry are what?
What is it called when electrons are shared equally?
Ribosomes are cellular substructures where what are synthesized?
How long can carbon be stored in sedimentary rock?
What do you call an animal in which the embryo, often termed a joey, is born immature and must complete its development outside the mother's body?
What is the most important element to life?
The idea of evolution has been around for centuries. in fact, it goes all the way back to the ancient greek philosopher named?
When a balloon is rubbed against hair, why do they attract each other?
Living things get energy from food in a process called respiration, which releases what gas back into the atmosphere?
What is the name of the scientific field that deals with the general study of the solid earth?
What kind of enzyme is phosphofructokinase?
Covering about 16 percent of the moon's surface, maria are dark, solid, flat areas consisting of what substance?
Sickle cell disease is caused by production of an abnormal type of what?
Who first proposed that earth is a magnet?
Which atomic model shows that the distances of electrons from the nucleus is not a fixed value?
What is it called when breaks in bone occur that is usually caused by excessive stress on the bone?
What crystals consist of molecules at the lattice points of the crystal, held together by relatively weak intermolecular forces?
What causes continents to drift closer to the poles or the equator?
What is the major selective advantage of myelination?
What debated therapy offers a potential method for replacing neurons lost to injury or disease?
How many types of simple machines are there?
After dispersal of a seed, what next step may occur if environmental conditions are favorable?
What is the term for the smallest particle of an element that still has the properties of that element?
What are insect parasites transmitted sexually?
What type of energy is used when a roller coaster runs downhill?
In what process is atp created by glycolysis, without oxygen?
What helps deposit the material in caves as stalactites, stalagmites, and columns
A recent deadly explosion in the gulf of mexico exemplified what source of ocean pollution?
Plants supply, ultimately, most of the food eaten by terrestrial animals, along with what gas?
Chemical reactions are typically written to imply that they proceed in one direction - if they can occur in either direction, they are considered what?
Single-celled eukaryotes that share some traits with animals are also called?
Antibiotics can be used to fight what, in general?
An organism that carries pathogens from one individual to another is called what?
What fills the epidermal cells that make up fingernails and toenails?
What is the name for a parasite that causes disease?
What type of map shows the elevation and features in an area?
What are organelles made of protein and ribosomal rna (rrna)?
What are major temperature zones primarily based on?
What type of muscle is found in the walls of other internal organs such as the stomach?
A visual "copy" of an object that is formed by reflected or refracted light is called what?
From the pharynx, air next passes through what structure, also known as the voice box because it contains vocal cords?
Vertebrates are all chordates that have a what?
What do structures of the human eye collect and focus?
Different elements differ in the size, mass, and other properties of what fundamental structures?
Breasts are considered accessory organs of what body system?
Because plants lack what kind of system, their first line of defense is usually the death of cells surrounding infected tissue to prevent spread of infection?
What type of cells make up tumors?
When leaves wilt, what plant process ceases?
What type of tissue makes up much of the inside of a plant?
Saliva can carry the hiv virus, but it won't spread it, unless the saliva gets into what?
Does blood flow increase or decrease when blood vessels constrict?
What is venus covered in a thick layer of?
What type of aquifer is trapped between two impermeable rock layers?
Name the multi-phase process in which the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell divides?
What is the term for the basic contractile unit of the muscle?
What are chemical messengers that control sexual development and reproduction?
What are species that are first to colonize a disturbed area called?
What planet is the easiest to observe?
Where does the heartbeat originate in vertebrates?
What is a process where some substances called reactants change chemically into different substances called products?
Cellulose is the main structural component of what part of the plant cell, and makes up over thirty percent of plant matter?
What is a push or a pull acting on an object?
Which organ will bladder infections commonly damage if untreated?
What is the acid that is released by the stomach that kills most pathogens that enter the stomach?
What occurs when force is applied to a moving object?
Smooth, cardiac, and skeletal are all types of what?
What group of elements does sodium belong to?
Pure constructive interference and pure destructive interference are distinguished by whether or not identical waves are what?
The process of photosynthesis uses chlorophyll, which is located in organelles called what?
What kind of oily substance is secreted from sebaceous glands?
Some reactions need extra help to occur quickly. they need another substance called what?
What have approximately the same mass as protons but no charge?
Amniocentesis and chorionic villus sampling can indicate whether a suspected genetic disorder is present at what stage?
What do you call aquatic biomes in the ocean?
The reaction of which body system causes food allergies?
Leaving tampons in for too long can put you at risk of what syndrome?
There are three flat skeletal muscles in the antero-lateral wall of what?
The dead, dry stratum corneum is the most superficial layer of what and is the layer exposed to the outside environment?
What protein is produced when a plasma cell is stimulated by antigens?
An unbalanced force on an object in motion causes what?
Partial albinism results from a mutation in an enzyme that is involved in the production of what?
Where does a baby travel to after leaving the uterus?
Name an important natural resource in and of itself.
In classical conditioning, a response called the conditioned response is associated with what?
What kind of bonds does boron form rather than metallic lattices?
What broad group of living things serves as the major producers in terrestrial biomes?
Birds that move pollen from flower to flower are called what?
The major cause of outdoor air pollution is the burning of?
What is the ideal mechanical advantage in the single fixed pulley?
What science is the study of matter and the changes it undergoes?
What is driven by the sun's energy and moves water over the surface of earth?
What are materials that are poor thermal conductors called?
Balanced chemical reactions are balanced in what?
The autonomic nervous system serves as the relay between what and the internal organs?
The role that a particular species plays in its ecosystem is also known as what?
What element has the atomic number 16?
Name the most famous satellite of the earth?
What is the minimum number of loops a circuit can have?
What type of organism is algae?
When water slows down, it starts depositing sediment, starting with which particles first?
Because they control many cell activities - as well as being controlled by feedback mechanisms - what substances are very important for homeostasis?
Contraction of what large, sheet-like muscle results in inhalation?
What type of ionic compound is formed from acid and bases reacting with each other?
The iron ion used to bind oxygen is on what type of "ring"?
In police radar, a radar gun sends out short bursts of which waves?
Oxides of small, highly charged ions of what type tend to be acidic?
A lewis acid is a substance that accepts a pair of electrons to form what?
What is the amount of force pushing against a given area?
What is another word for seed plants?
What process takes place when echinoderms release their gametes into the water?
Salt hydrolysis is a reaction in which one of the ions from a salt reacts with what?
Do motile cilia usually occur in small or large numbers on the cell surface?
Potassium is a soft, silvery metal that ignites explosively in what?
When a solid substance is involved in a chemical reaction, only the matter from which part of the solid is exposed to other reactants?
Which word describes how an extracellular solution can change the volume of a cell by affecting osmosis?
The process where eroded material is dropped somewhere is called?
What was the first amino acid to be isolated?
Where is the food stored before being mixed with the chyme?
What kind of biome or climate might you find very close to the earth's poles, as well as up on high mountains?
What type of waves travel through the body of a planet?
What type of energy occurs by splitting the nuclei of radioactive uranium?
Like skeletal muscle, cardiac muscle is what?
Rising and falling levels of what will result in progression of the ovarian and menstrual cycles?
What is the term for how much matter is packed into a given space?
Phototrophic organisms capture light energy from the sun and convert it into what type of energy inside their cells?
What is an animal that picks up pollen on its body and carries it to another flower called?
How many bones make up an adult human skeleton?
The process in which a sperm unites with an egg is called?
What is the term for the height of the wave?
When a plant has what deficiency, guard cells may lose turgor and close stomata?
What is a combination of two or more substances in any proportions called?
What does subduction of a plate lead to?
The mixture of gases that surrounds the planet and makes up the atmosphere is known as ________.
What system protects the soft organs of the body?
Before the atmosphere became oxygenated, the planet was subjected to what harmful energy source, meaning the first organisms would have flourished where they were more protected?
Turbulent sounds, at the onset of blood flow when the cuff pressure becomes sufficiently small are called?
What is the simple sugar that living things us to store energy?
Reversing the orientation of a chromosomal segment is called what?
What does the clitellum secrete, while the sperm received are stored temporarily?
What forms when water vapor condenses around particles in the air?
The cycle of copper reacting is a good example of what principle?
A ramp is an example of what?
What kind of muscle is responsible for hollow organs contracting?
In vascular plants, do primary roots grow downward or to the side?
What type of light has shorter wavelengths than visible light and has enough energy to kill bacteria?
What characteristic of the endothelium structure minimizes resistance to the flow of blood?
What type of bonds contain atoms that possess either a partial positive or a partial negative charge?
The body contains how many types of muscle tissue?
The eyes of all vertebrates possess a single one of these structures?
The final stage of labor is delivery of the what?
All proteins are made of monomers called what?
What system consists of all the muscles of the body?
Photoautotrophs and chemoautotrophs are two basic types of what?
Many genetic disorders are caused by mutations in one or a few of?
In some cases, the nervous system directly stimulates endocrine glands to release hormones, which is referred to as what?
What kind of reproduction results in offspring that are generally all genetically different?
When traveling through space what do mechanical waves lose?
How many types of major tissues do modern plants have?
How does a reduced sweating ability affect elderly people?
What substance do developing seeds produce which promotes fruit growth?
Different clouds are associated with different types of what?
The testes produce sperm and secrete what?
Friction does negative work and removes some of the energy the person expends and converts it to which kind of energy?
What happens when forces of evolution work over a long period of time?
What measurement is used to describe the amount of water vapor in the air?
Sebaceous glands produce an oily substance called what?
In what kind of a series does the genetic code work?
Free-flowing electrons enable what materials to conduct electricity and heat very well?
What is the difference in voltage across a resistor or other electrical devices called?
What is the science that describes the ancestral and descendant connections between organisms?
According to collision theory, particles that lack what kind of energy may collide, but the particles will simply bounce off one another unchanged?
Muscles that move what long bone originate on the pelvic girdle?
In an atom, what is determined by electron distribution in shells?
What term is defined as a way of writing very large or small numbers that uses exponents?
Electrons are always added to which energy level first?
What type of symmetry do echinoderms show?
Nails cover the tips of what?
Which carrier molecule becomes less effective at binding oxygen as temperature increases?
What is found at the top of the stamen?
What field of study is called the language of science?
What is the term for  tough, flexible connective tissue that contains the protein collagen?
Liquid water changing to water vapor is called?
What is used to prevent some infectious diseases?
The change in the characteristics of living things over time is known as _________
What provides building materials for the body?
What is the term for animals that eat producers to get energy?
Farsightedness, or hyperopia, is the condition in which distant objects are seen clearly, but nearby objects are?
Melting ice and grinding wood into sawdust are examples of what?
In humans and other multicellular organisms, different types of what basic structures are specialized for specific jobs?
How much unpolarized light does a polarized filter block?
What is the term for cellular eating?
Genes are used to make mrna by the process of transcription; mrna is used to synthesize proteins by the process of what?
What is the most important way that humans communicate?
Somatic, autonomic, and enteric structures are part of what system?
Duckweed and cattails serve what role in the food chain in freshwater biomes?
If humans were to artificially intervene and fertilize the egg of a bald eagle with the sperm of an african fish eagle and a chick did hatch, that offspring, called a hybrid (a cross between two species), would probably be this?
What causes lightning during a thunderstorm?
The human heart is located within what cavity?
What is the name of the symbiotic relationship in which one species benefits while the other species is not affected?
Living things need to take in nutrients so that they can grow and create what?
Common forms of what include light, chemical and heat, along with kinetic and potential?
What is the job of hemoglobin in the body?
What are the most numerous and diverse biochemical compounds?
Loss of what eventually threatens other species not impacted directly, because of their interconnectedness; as species disappear from an ecosystem others are threatened by changes in available resources?
How many centimeters are in a meter?
What is the term of a phase change if solid water has it's average kinetic energy increased to change it to liquid water?
What type of animals are known for being playful and frisky?
Virtually all of the effects of pregnancy can be attributed in some way to the influence of what?
A mass suspended by a wire is a simple type of what and undergoes simple harmonic motion for amplitudes less than about 15 degrees?
The structure of the gas carbon dioxide consists of one atom of carbon and two atoms of what?
What type of numerical figure is important in considering the precision and accuracy of a number?
What rod provides stiffness to counterbalance the pull of muscles?
What type of cell does the sperm cell fertilize?
Where does the most important monsoon in the world occur?
What is the earliest reptile?
Which side of the heart does blood from the lungs enter into?
Smog is a visible form of what?
Which therapy uses viruses to genetically modify diseased cells and tissues?
Radiotherapy is effective against cancer because cancer cells reproduce rapidly and, consequently, are more sensitive to this?
What type of cells are multiple small spaces located in the right and left sides of the ethmoid bone?
When what element - whose name means "light bringing" - was first isolated, scientists noted that it glowed in the dark and burned when exposed to air?
Digestive enzymes secreted in the acidic environment (low ph) of the stomach help break down what?
The majority of solids are what in nature?
What are the most abundant unicellular algae in the oceans?
What term is used to describe the cellular structures responsible for protein synthesis?
What is the sun classified as on the main sequence?
The term science comes from a latin word that means?
Lymph vessels, like veins, have what objects that prevent the backflow of fluid?
Veins subdivide repeatedly and branch throughout what?
What is the term for heat being transferred from molecule to molecule?
What is a group of organs that work together to do the same job?
What are specialized cells that are capable of sending electrical as well as chemical signals?
What did sir isaac newton's famous law help people understand?
Compounds containing an atom of what element, bonded in a hydrocarbon framework, are classified as amines?
What line of latitude is an equal distance from both the north and south poles?
What type of graph is useful for showing percents of a whole?
What substances affect the brain and influence how a person feels, thinks, or acts?
The reaction rate usually increases as the concentration of what increases?
Atoms are composed of negatively charged electrons and a positively charged what?
Communication is any way that animals share what?
What do the muscles of the gastrointestinal tract do?
What is the fan-like superior region that forms the largest part of the hip bone and is united to the sacrum at the largely immobile sacroiliac joint?
What do jellyfish lack in their nervous system?
Ingestive protists extend their cell wall and cell membrane around the food item, forming a what?
What type of flowers offer no reward, such as nectar, to a male wasp?
If an abnormal cell is not prevented from dividing and it divides uncontrollably, what forms?
Vertebrates have evolved more complex digestive systems, with some species having multi-chambered types of what organ?
A trait controlled by a single gene that has two alleles is given what name, after the scientist who studied inheritance?
What law states that energy cannot be created or destroyed?
How do mammals generate heat?
What are small, icy objects that have very elliptical orbits around the sun?
Is the most basic what is the most basic of the sciences, concerning itself with energy, matter, space and time, and their interactions?
Which is the active ingredient of cereal crop disease, ergot?
What type of structures evolved to do the same job by unrelated organisms?
What explains the spherical shape of ceres, once thought to be the largest asteroid?
What measures the height of the largest seismic wave or earth quakes?
What type of winds are created when more solar energy strikes the equator than the polar regions?
Reptiles and birds are the only known living descendants of what?
Organism's changing over time is called?
The law of conservation mass states that matter cannot be created or what?
What help should you use for disposing hazardous products?
Although surface waves are slowest, they do most of the damage of what event?
Fruit begins to ripen because what gas is released?
Winter storms develop from what, which form at high altitudes and are associated with hurricanes as well?
Fungi absorb nutrients from the environment through what?
What do you call any process in which excess water or wastes are removed from the body?
Earth's temperature will increase further as more of what colorfully nicknamed gases are put into the atmosphere?
What happens to cells in a hypertonic solution as water leaves the cell via osmosis?
Digestion and respiration are both facilitated by the pharynx, more commonly called the what?
What muscle is found only in the walls of the heart?
The wave on a guitar string is transverse. the sound wave rattles a sheet of paper in a direction that shows the sound wave is what?
How do leaves export sugar to roots and other nonphotosynthetic parts of the plant?
Some metals, such as gold and platinum, do not corrode easily because they are very resistant to what?
What are floods a source of on a floodplain?
Which process helps deaminate amino acids?
What is each half of the cerebrum called?
During interphase, the cell undergoes normal growth processes while also preparing for what, by accumulating energy and building blocks of dna?
What type of species have a large effect on the balance of organisms in an ecosystem?
Which type of skeleton supports the animal, protects internal organs, and allows for movement?
After cell division what are the two new cells called?
What are bacteria and archaea examples of?
What gives a coil of copper wire the ability to conduct electricity well?
Blood helps maintain homeostasis by stabilizing ph, temperature, osmotic pressure, and by eliminating this?
During sexual reproduction, the macronucleus dissolves and is replaced by what?
When naming this type of ion the ending of the element’s name is dropped and replaced with the – ide suffix?
What is a random change in an organism's genes?
Osseous tissue - the connective tissue that includes specialized cells, mineral salts, and collagen fibers - makes up what?
What is the name of the hollow nerve cord along the back of chordates?
What term is used to describe the amount of space occupied by a sample of matter?
What are responsible for the bending movements of the organelle?
What  are formed when primary pollutants interact with sunlight, air, or each other?
The first reaction of the body to tissue damage or infection is called the what response?
Because these components of the endocrine system are transported via blood, they get diluted and are present in low concentrations when they act on their target cells.
Which theory explains how populations of organisms can change over time?
What forms when the dna in the nucleus wraps around proteins?
What is the condition called where pimples form on the skin?
Whose laws of motion are the foundation of dynamics?
Mutualism is a symbiotic relationship in which both species do what?
What do you call a substance that cannot be broken down to other substances by chemical reactions.?
What weather term describes what the temperature feels like when the wind is taken into account?
What device uses electromagnetic induction to change the voltage of electric current?
What layer of soil usually does not have very small particles like clay?
Which type of glaciers form in high mountains and travel through valleys?
What two types of junctions do animal cells have?
Where does digestion take place within an incomplete digestive system?
Natural selection cannot create new variations in organisms - these new variations must be created by what, which are usually associated with some sort of abnormality?
Gene expression is regulated primarily at the what level?
What nullified the idea that all biological catalysts are proteins?
A tadpole turns into what land mammal?
In physics, what do you call devices that make work easier?
Mars appears red because of large amounts of which element in the soil?
What type of rocks are laid down horizontally with the oldest at the bottom?
What are two types of frozen percipitation?
The bond between the two nitrogen atoms is a what?
What are the two most common silicates?
Starch is a large, complex carbohydrate made of thousands of _____ joined together?
Newly duplicated chromosomes are divided into two daughter nuclei during what stage?
As an erythrocyte matures in the red bone marrow, it extrudes its nucleus and most of its other what?
What is the tube-like device used to reliably measure lower levels of radiation?
The conducting zone of the respiratory system includes the organs and structures not directly involved in what?
Aflatoxins are toxic, carcinogenic compounds released by fungi of this?
Four haploid spermatids form during meiosis from what?
Like people with type 1 diabetes, people with type 2 diabetes must frequently check what level?
Many species in rhizaria are among the organisms referred to as what?
What is the amount actually produced in a reaction called?
Each group of organisms went through its own evolutionary journey, called what?
What term refers to the emission of material or energy from an atom's nucleus?
Which feature in maps allows users to make corrections between magnetic north and true north?
What is the term for the maintenance of a steady state despite internal and external changes?
Any structure inside a cell that is enclosed by a membrane is called?
The earliest vertebrates were jawless what?
In which kind of water can less carbon dioxide dissolve?
The cochlea is a shell-like structure that is full of fluid and lined with nerve cells called what?
What is an electrically neutral compound with positive and negative ions?
Which direction does the sun, moon, and stars appear to travel?
Sulfate is used as a cleaning agent because it is acidic and soluble in what substance?
Triceps and biceps muscles in the upper arm are an example of what type of muscle relationship?
Internal metabolism and the external environment are the sources of heat for what?
What is another term for stored energy?
What  occur when elements switch places in compounds?
What does the human heart do?
What bond is the force of attraction that holds together positive and negative ions?
There are five primary tastes in humans: sweet, sour, bitter, salty, and what?
Are birds and mammals mainly exothermic or endothermic?
What are the high points in a transverse wave called?
Chemistry and physics are fields in what type of science?
Pyramids of net production and biomass reflect what level of efficiency?
The rate of flow of charge in an electrical circuit is known as what?
The vertebrate endoskeleton can also be called what?
What can be used to speed up biochemical reactions?
The abundance of this substance in the atmosphere is what most scientist agree that is causing global warming?
Most cases of syphilis can be cured with what?
How can people access water in an aquifer that does not flow from a spring or a geyser?
What is the term for animals that have a backbone?
What type of animal that eats only or mainly insects?
What do you call the zone in a body of water where there is too little sunlight for photosynthesis?
The sweat glands of the armpit are classified as these?
Chitin is a substance that is found in what part of animals like beetles and lobsters?
What kind of air does a continental polar air mass hold?
What do you call taxes placed on products that produce carbon dioxide?
What does the coefficient in front of an element in a formula indicate?
Behaviors that occur naturally and are not learned are called what?
Which is the dominant stage of the lifecycle of a fern?
What is a specific region in space within which a sensory receptor is responsive to stimuli?
What changes from heat or pressure during metamorphism?
Do most substances increase or decrease in size when they change from a liquid to a solid?
The highest point of a wave is called?
What is the smallest part of an element called?
Dermal tissue covers the outside of a plant in a single layer of cells called what?
After fluid collects in nephron tubules in the kidney, where does it move to?
What are external skeletons known as?
What is the name for the process where data in the genes is transferred to amino acids?
What play an important role in the modulation of the nuclear chain reaction?
What preventative measure is often delivered by injection into the arm?
From observations as simple as blowing up a balloon, it is clear that increasing the amount of gas increases what else?
What is the scientific term for the amount of light reflected by a surface?
What part of the muscle fibers cause shortening and contraction?
How many electrons are in the hydrogen atom?
If a solution contains so much solute that its solubility limit is reached, the solution is said to be what?
What term describes waves that transfer energy through matter?
What is the name of the mechanism in which sounds are encoded in microwaves by changing their frequency?
Grasses such as wheat, rice, and corn are examples of fibrous root systems. fibrous root systems are found in monocots; tap root systems are found in these?
Humans have about 20,000 to 22,000 genes scattered among 23 of these?
What is the term for the use of radioactive decay to estimate the ages of fossils and rock?
On which ridge does iceland sit?
How are the major families of organic compounds characterized?
What do chemotrophs extract energy from?
Involved in balance, the semicircular canals are parts of what organs?
Injuries can be prevented by getting proper what?
Some leaves are attached to the plant stem by a petiole. leaves that do not have a petiole and are directly attached to the plant stem are called this?
What is water vapor density known as?
What is the name for the transfer of thermal energy between particles of matter that are touching?
The mean free path for a gaseous molecule will be hundreds of times the what of the molecule?
What is the most common fossil fuel?
The weather conditions in an area over time is also called a what?
Chemical symbols are useful to concisely represent the elements present in a substance. the letters usually come from the name of what?
Cell transport refers to the movement of substances across what structure?
What term describes the rate at which a device changes electric current to another form of energy?
What happens when a sodium atom loses an electron?
When a fluorine atom gains an electron, it becomes a negative what?
The endocrine system consists of cells, tissues, and organs that secrete what critical to homeostasis?
What is formed when two dna strands link together in an antiparallel direction and are twisted?
Particles of a gas are constantly moving and bumping into things. this gives gases what?
Which part of a leaf contains openings known as stomata, through which the exchange of gases takes place?
Which system transports oxygens to cells?
What is the part of a plant whose primary role is to collect sunlight and make food by photosynthesis?
Technically, any redox reaction can be set up to make a what?
What percentage of all species that ever lived on earth have gone extinct?
What is the diffusion of water known as?
What is it called when plants release water vapor through their leaves?
Earth goes through regular changes in its position relative to?
A symporter carries how many different molecules or ions in the same direction?
Large amounts of fuel are stored in skeletal muscles, adipose tissues and what organ?
Intrusive igneous rocks cool from magma slowly in the crust and have large what?
What is the term used for the ability of salamanders to grow back lost limbs and other body parts?
A winter storm is called what?
The trochophre, a unique larval form, is found in the life cycle of which animal classification.
Within organs, arteries branch into what small vessels that convey blood to the capillaries?
Diamond is extremely hard because of the strong bonding between ______ in all directions?
Vertebrates. from the smallest of fish to us. one of the main features we all have in common is our what?
The fight or flight response and similar responses are controlled by what part of the nervous system?
Deposition refers to when a gas changes to what state?
Nuclear changes occur with a simultaneous release of what, and a slight drop in mass?
The way of learning that involves reward and punishment is called?
The sodium-potassium pump is an active transport pump that exchanges sodium ions for what?
Mass multiplied by velocity equals what force?
How many years ago did early amniotes diverge into two groups?
The intensity or rate of radiation emission _________  with temperature?
For the most part, cognitive functions reside where?
What is the term for the force exerted by circulating blood on the walls of blood vessels?
What does the precise pattern of a crystal depend on?
Learning to get used to something after being exposed to it for a while is associated with what kind of learning?
Is the digestive tract of many sharks longer or shorter than many other vertebrates?
In the case of the thyroid hormone pathway, thyroid hormone itself carries out what kind of feedback?
What increases the size of a population's gene pool?
The heart and the arteries and veins are associated with what system of the body?
What do scientists believe are the oldest eukaryotes?
What are used to balance chemical equations?
Endothermic and exothermic reactions differ in whether the products or reactants store more of what?
What is the conversion of metals from their ores to more useful forms called?
What is the predominant stage in the life cycle of most scyphozoans?
The reaction of an alkyl halide with an inorganic hydroxide base at elevated temperature produces what?
What sequence is the primary structure of a protein?
What are used to lift large masses of magnetic materials such as scrap iron, rolls of steel, and auto parts?
Carbon behaves as a metal because it conducts which two things well?
What is the first direct action of growth hormone?
What contains the spore-forming asci?
Fruit fly and brine shrimp hox genes have evolved independently for how long?
Yolk is a very fragile substance found in the eggs of reptiles and needs protection.  what serves as protection for the yolk?
What do tadpoles change into?
Earthworms and segmented worms belong to what phylum?
What are most stis caused by?
What is the term for matter that does not let any light pass through it, whether it absorbs light, reflects light, or does both?
Rain dissolves fertilizer in the soil, what carries it away?
Each vertebral body has a large hole in the center through which the nerves of what pass?
Rust consists of oxides of what element?
Rising air currents carry water vapor into what?
Echinoderms have what type of body symmetry?
What is used during filtration to push fluids and solutes, from higher pressure areas to lower pressure areas?
How many pathways do plants have for carbon fixation?
What type of substance is any matter that has a fixed chemical composition and characteristic properties?
Where are sperm produced in the process of spermatogenesis?
What type of energy does chemosynthesis use to make food?
The polymerase chain reaction is a way of making copies of what?
Energy transfer between what kinds of levels is generally rather inefficient?
What kind of conditions are often inherited as simple recessive traits?
Without dinoflagellate symbionts, corals lose algal pigments in a process called coral bleaching and eventually die, while corals in turn provide protection, making this what type of relationship?.
What is the type of reproduction where part of the parent plant is used to generate a new plant?
What is the name of the wind belt nearest the equator?
What two phases does the cell cycle consist of?
Atoms with the same atomic number but different mass numbers are called what?
Sphenodontia sphenodontia (“wedge tooth”) arose in the mesozoic era and includes only one of what?
In a heterozygote with one dominant and one recessive allele, which is expressed?
Any sound with a frequency above the highest audible frequency is defined as what, a phenomenon useful in medical diagnosis and therapy?
Which organ secretes estrogen?
Water-soluble carboxylic acids ionize slightly in water to form these?
Which kind of irrigation uses much less water than other methods?
Fishes were the earliest example of what subphylum, and jawless fishes were the earliest of these?
What three things do animals require in order to survive?
What is broken during catabolic reactions, such as the breakdown of complex carbohydrates into simple sugars?
The actual amount (mass) of gasoline left in the tank when the gauge hits “empty” is a lot less in the summer than in the winter. the gasoline has the same volume as it does in the winter when the “add fuel” light goes on, but because the gasoline has expanded, there is what?
What do you call pure substances with unique properties?
What is the large muscle that extends across the bottom of the chest below the lungs called?
What is less dense then either solids or liquids?
What is the term for a mountain-building event?
A multiaxial ball-and-socket joint has much more mobility than a what hinge joint?
Meiosis and mitosis are both preceded by one round of what?
What is the hollow sac like organ that stores urine until it is excreted?
What is the name of the magnetic material found in lava?
What is a branded polymer that serves as energy storage in animal?
Milk is usually subjected to what process, where high temperatures denature the proteins in bacteria so they cannot carry out functions needed to grow and multiply?
What do you call something that controls the uptake of water or another substance in the environment, in order to maintain constant internal conditions?
Plastics are common examples of synthetic polymers of what abundant element?
Magnetite crystals of different ages and on different continents pointed to different spots. the simplest explanation is that the continents have done what?
Protozoa can be classified on the basis of how they?
Biomass, solar, wind, water, and geothermal power are examples of what kinds of energy resources?
What type of gases are the least reactive of all elements?
The cells of most eukaryotic and many prokaryotic organisms can carry out what type of respiration?
What kind of rock's makeup is changed by heat and or pressure?
Most scientists think that ordinary matter makes up how much of the total matter in the universe?
In machines that increase force, such as ramps and doorknobs and nutcrackers, what is the relation between output and input force?
What type of galaxies are oval shaped, red or yellow, and contain mostly old stars?
What is the term for something in the environment that causes a reaction in an organism?
What is the mildest type of brain injury?
Isobaric expansion is a process occurring without a change in what?
What is the term for the process of exposing a person to a pathogen on purpose in order to develop immunity?
Why will water balloons launched into the air eventually burst?
What type of behaviors do not have to be learned or practiced?
Terrestrial biomes are classified by the climate and their what?
A flower's colors come from what part of the plant?
What stages in the life of a cell does the cell cycle include?
What do you call the type of molecular signals that include insulin and that help regulate a number of biochemical processes?
What type of device uses electromagnetic induction to change the voltage of electric current?
Mutations cannot be passed on to offspring if they occur in what type of cells?
What layer high in the atmosphere protects living things from most of the sun’s harmful uv rays?
What occurs over a large area when a rock is buried or compressed?
The uterus has an external opening known as what?
Plants face two types of enemies: herbivores and what else?
What organism carries out only fermentation or anaerobic respiration?
What are the smallest type of blood vessel?
What type of behavior is most flexible?
In the water molecule, two of the electron pairs are lone pairs rather than what?
What are the  basic building blocks of the human body?
What is the medial bone of the forearm that runs parallel to the radius?
The animal kingdom can also be divided into two basic groups, what are they?
These microorganisms are abundant in the human digestive track and serve many roles.  what are they?
When both objects have a positive charge what will the force be between them?
What are ocean waves mainly caused by?
What type of archaea live in salty environments?
What can be thought of as the fundamental unit of life?
What type of organism is a bacteria?
What chemical element is required for a combustion reaction ?
What do wind turbines turn wind energy into?
A simple sugar such as fructose or glucose is also called a what?
The fossilized skeleton of archaeopteryx looks like that of a dinosaur, but it had what structures modified for flight, a trait associated only with birds among modern animals?
Blood volume increases substantially during pregnancy, so that by childbirth, it exceeds its preconception volume by 30 percent, or approximately what?
All of the land drained by a river system is called its basin, or what "wet" term?
What does the gizzard in birds contain that allows them to grind food?
Equal and oppositely directed forces produce what kind of acceleration?
Organs are groups of what working together?
Deep water filling a void caused by surface winds blowing water north and south is known as?
What devices do astronomers use to see objects at wavelengths all across the electromagnetic spectrum?
What type of winds blow only over a limited area?
What is the term for the spacing of individuals within a population?
What is the minimum number of pulleys needed for a compound pulley?
Magnetic force is always perpendicular to what?
What is the region in the center back of the eye that is responsible for acute vision?
What is it called when a human has an extra autosome?
Carboxylic acids can form what with alcohols?
What are the two types of semiconductors?
What is the term for organisms that live in extremely hot environments?
What is a capillary bed that filters blood principally based on particle size?
Minerals form when they precipitate from hot fluids that have done what?
Mass spectrometry today is used extensively in chemistry and biology laboratories to identify chemical and biological substances according to their ratios of what?
What helps treat bacterial infections in people?
Which has more electrons, neon or fluorine?
What kind of process occurs naturally under certain conditions, unlike its opposite, which will not take place unless it is “driven” by the continual input of energy from an external source?
Gradual degradation of a material due to its exposure to the environment is known as what?
What is the name for a matter that has a fixed volume and a fixed shape?
German doctor rudolf virchow first discovered what process when studying living cells under a microscope?
What was the first mass extinction that occurred on earth?
What type of habitat do ferns need to grow?
G2 and s are phases in what process that is important in cell division?
Solar energy travels in what?
What type of joint is the knee joint?
What state of matter takes the shape and volume of whatever container it occupies?
What is a high concentrated solution typically referred to as?
The joints that are between the bones that make up the skull are what kind of joints?
What weather phenomenon increases the rate of weathering in rock and soil?
What is pluto now called?
Tidal volume, expiratory reserve volume, inspiratory reserve volume, and residual volume are all types of what kind of measurement?
What kind of a relationship do plants and soil have?
What is the process of generating electric current with a magnetic field?
The adrenal cortex directly influences the function of what organs through the production of the hormone aldosterone to stimulate sodium reabsorption?
What type of direction does a phase change depend on?
The strength of what depends on the concentration of hydrogen ions it produces when dissolved in water?
What are the largest phylum in the animal kingdom?
What kind of organisms are yeasts?
What kind of bond consists of one sigma bond and one pi bond?
What is the purpose of utilizing careful farming practices such as rotating crops or planting nutrient rich crops?
What do communication satellites carry and use to provide energy during their missions?
What is the biogeochemical cycle that recycles water called?
What type of behavior is frogs croaking or deer clashing antlers an example of?
An atom can be classified as a particular element based solely on its what?
In the body, what essential substance is pumped from the heart into arteries and then eventually into capillaries?
What (nh3) is one of the few thermodynamically stable binary compounds of nitrogen with a nonmetal?
What does increased temperature cause the volume to do in a gas?
Which effect causes winds to strike the polar front at an angle?
Birds evolved from what type of ancestor?
Which blood cells serve to defend the body in various ways?
Eutherian mammals possess a specialized structure called the corpus callosum that links what hemispheres?
Which part of the brain secretes hormones that tell the pituitary gland either to secrete or to stop secreting its hormones?
Most reptile eggs can be laid on land, not in water and they are called what?
What do you call a small whole number placed in front of a formula in an equation in order to balance it?
Because the earth is covered with vegetation, cellulose is the most abundant of all what?
The energy of a photon is directly proportional to the frequency of the electromagnetic what?
What term means the amount of space matter takes up?
All of the stages that a cell goes through make up what?
What term is used to describe birds that mate for an entire season or even stay paired for their entire life?
What branch of science offers an overview of the physiology of humans?
In atherosclerosis, thickening of an arterial wall due to this can restrict blood flow through the artery?
Moist skin distinguishes frogs from what animal with dry, bumpy skin?
Scientists perform experiments to test their hypotheses because sometimes the nature of natural universe is what?
What is the term for movement toward light?
Ultraviolet radiation has the highest energy; which has the lowest?
What kind of proteins either activate or deactivate the transcription of other genes?
What occurs when the pancreas doesn’t make enough insulin or else the body’s cells are resistant to the effects of insulin?
According to the octet rule, magnesium is unstable because its valence shell has just two of what?
What make distant objects appear both nearer and larger?
The atmosphere consists of oxygen, nitrogen, carbon dioxide, which exerts a certain pressure referred to as what?
What is the oxygen-storing protein found in diving mammals' muscles called?
The modern atomic theory states that all matter is composed of what?
Pressure has a significant effect on the solubility of what state of matter?
The site of some nutrient absorption, the ileum is the third part of what digestive organ?
If both atoms are the same, they have the same electronegativity and share what type of bond?
What forms when oceanic crust subducts into the mantle at convergent plate boundaries?
The skin plays an important role in preventing the escape of what commonly found liquid from the body?
Which area of the human heart pumps the blood to the right ventricle?
What moves sediments after they have formed?
What involves the emission of a particle and/or energy as one atom changes into another?
Certain anaerobic parabasalid species exist in the digestive tracts of termites and wood-eating cockroaches, where they contribute an essential step in the digestion of this?
What do you call a group of cells of the same kind that performs the same function?
What is the name of a reactant in an enzymatic reaction?
The ideal gas law is used like any other gas law, with attention paid to the unit and making sure that temperature is expressed in kelvin. however, the ideal gas law does not require a change in the conditions of a gas sample. the ideal gas law implies that if you know any three of the physical properties of a gas, you can calculate this?
What is a reaction in which an atom or molecule is added to an unsaturated molecule, making a single product?
What is the main problem in both types of diabetes?
The structure of mitochondrion plays an important role in what?
Topographic maps have a horizontal scale to indicate what distances?
What can occur when one end of a small diameter tube is immersed in liquid?
What kind of system do echinoderms possess?
Fossils provide a window into the past. they are evidence for what?
Dominant alleles rarely cause what type of disorders, since the mutant allele is likely to die out of the population?
Near-earth asteroids cross paths with earth, meaning they could collide; what are the paths called?
Reflected in their relatively high level of intelligence and their ability to learn new behaviors, what organs tend to be relatively large in primates?
This inverse relationship between solubility and temperature can be understood by looking at a what?
Energy from sunlight enters many ecosystems through what process?
What is the world’s most serious resource problem?
Quarks also have a different type of charge, called what?
Thylakoids in a chloroplast contain what plant pigment?
The expulsion stage begins when the fetal head enters what?
What type of waste is likely to explode?
Named after the dutch physicist, the van de graaff is a type of what device used for nuclear research?
A substance that displays different colors when in the presence of an acid or a base is called what?
What is the name for the study of the plants and animals that live in fresh water bodies ?
What does urine leave the body through?
What type of plant is the dominant group of land plants?
What term is used to describe a process in which material travels from regions of high concentration to low concentration until equilibrium is reached?
Poetically speaking, nature reserves are islands of what, in a sea of habitat degraded by human activity?
Reactive elements are able to combine more what with other elements?
What do scientists attach to aquatic animals to collect information?
Upon ovulation, the oocyte released by the ovary is swept into where?
Giardiasis and malaria are diseases caused by what organism?
The number of waves that pass a fixed point in a given amount of time is referred to as what?
The name carbon tetrachloride implies one carbon atom and four of which other atoms?
Most of a mushroom's surface area is actually where?
Interneurons carry what back and forth between sensory and motor neurons?
What are the mineral deposits that fill in underground cracks called?
Some of the small moons of saturn are found within what features distinctive to the planet?
An image that is double the size of the object would have what?
What is made up of bands of cells that contract for movement?
What is the name of the muscular tube that carries urine out of the body?
Tissues are organized by what?
Carbon released by burning fossil fuels contributes to what effect in the atmosphere?
What are a class of biochemical compounds that living things use to store energy?
Which element has an atomic number of 16?
Fossil evidence indicates that the ancestors of humans originated on which continent?
What will spores that eventually germinate develop into?
A binary molecular compound is made up of two of what?
Sound, like all waves, travels at a certain speed and has the properties of frequency and this?
Do bacteria sexually reproduce?
What is type of sugar is produced through photosynthesis?
The light-sensing cells in the retina are called rods and what else?
Lampreys possess a large round sucker, lined with teeth, that surrounds the mouth and is used to feed on what?
What is the type of plant that has a single cotelydon in the seedling?
What element is essential for amino acid and nucleic acid production?
In plants and algae where does photosynthesis takes place in?
What is crucial for the fermentation progress in making bread?
What hormone does the endocrine system secrete to help cells absorb blood sugar?
What part of the sporophyte produces microspores that form male gametophytes and megaspores that form female gametophytes?
This calcification prevents diffusion of nutrients into the matrix, resulting in what dying and the opening up of cavities in the diaphysis cartilage?
What is the greek word meaning "to help make things easier"?
High levels of radiation can remove electrons from?
What is the only planet we know that has plate techtonics?
Variation in muscle cells gives further insight into some benefits of what type of respiration?
Violet and red are two types of what kind of light?
The duodenum is a part of which part of the gi tract?
A complete ionic equation is a chemical equation in which the dissolved ionic compounds are written as what?
The barrier defenses are not a response to infections, but they are continuously working to protect against a broad range of what?
A minority of people on earth use up most of the planet's what, including energy?
Groundwater dissolves minerals and carries the ions in a what?
What is the area of our universe that isn't stars and galaxies called?
What neurotransmitter is associated with the fight-or-flight response?
What do scientists think are the oldest eukaryotes?
Geologists found that the youngest rocks on the seafloor were where?
The stability of an ecosystem depends on the actions of what, exemplified by mushrooms on a decaying log and bacteria in soil?
Anabolic steroids, a form of the male sex hormone testosterone, are one of the most widely known performance-enhancing drugs. steroids are used to help build what?
What is the only planet that is known to support life?
Where is food stored?
The vertebrae are divided into the cervical region, the thoracic region, and which other region?
What was used to measure the distance between the earth and the moon?
Upon entering the vestibular canal, the pressure waves push down on what duct?
Water is formed from oxygen and what other element?
What is the period from earth's origin to the beginning of the phanerozoic eon?
In a displacement graph, the slope of the line is the average what?
What is the process by which producers use the energy in sunlight to make food?
What is the term for something that limits the growth or development of an organism, population, or process?
Where is glucose carried in the human body?
What are large glaciers that cover a larger area than just a valley?
What type of reproduction do fungi engage in?
What system transports minerals and water in a plant?
What is the exchange of energy from one part of the universe to another called?
If environmental conditions deteriorate, many species can form protective what?
In what subgroup are oligochaetes classified?
The crocodilia order, which includes crocodiles, alligators, caimans, and gharils, is part of what class of animals?
What fluid is most prevalent in your body?
What are negative electrons attracted to?
The largest phylum in the animal kingdom, arthropod, is primarily comprised of what?
Which country is formed by a hotspot along the mid-atlantic ridge?
What is an atom or group of bonded atoms that has a positive or negative charge?
What type of reproduction produces offspring from a single parent that share the exact same genetic material as the parent?
Invertebrates make up what percentage of all animal species?
What do monotremes lack though they have hair and produce milk?
What is muscle tissue that is attached to the bone called?
What results from the evaporation of sea water?
The human body regulates the use and storage of what simple sugar, a major cellular fuel?
What planet did the voyager 1 spacecraft visit in 1980?
What is the shortest phase of the sexual response cycle?
What is the name of the process by which plants use energy from sunlight to synthesize carbohydrates?
Animals need plants for food and?
The product of a wave's wavelength and its frequency is what?
How did lamarck believe species change over time?
Which is larger: the human sperm or the human egg?
What kind of reaction is a reaction in which two or more substances combine to form a single new substance?
What is beyond the atmosphere?
What structure does methane have?
What is the blastocyst called after implantation?
What rate is generally higher for endotherms than for ectotherms?
What phylum includes snails, squids and clams?
What is the change in a species over time?
What are the largest known proteins?
What term is used to describe the organism that is invaded and often harmed by a pathogen?
Untreated botulism is typically fatal because muscles required for breathing fail to contract when the release of what chemical is blocked?
The combined magnetic force of the magnetized wire coil and iron bar makes an electromagnet what?
Where do two or more bones of the skeleton meet?
Lacking a bony endoskeleton, sharks, rays, and ratfish belong to what group of fish?
What process involves the flow of heat from warmer objects to cooler objects?
What broad category of animals shows adaptations from water-dwelling to land-dweller, including the ability to breathe air and legs to move on land?
What term is used to describe the tendency of a mineral to break along certain planes?
What controls earth's magnetosphere?
In humans, pharyngeal slits later develop into what?
What phenomenon involves the forcing of a substance into a cell against its concentration gradient?
What are used as model organisms in molecular biology and genetics?
The bones of the newborn skull are not fully ossified and are separated by large areas called what?
With logistic growth, how does population growth start out?
What determines the color of visible light?
What do eukaryotic cells have that compartmentalize their functions?
Earth rotates on its axis once each day and revolves around the sun how often?
What are the two types of fatty acids?
Lipids are available to the body from how many sources?
What is a silver-colored alkaline earth metal that is even softer than calcium?
Statoliths are starch-filled plastids that enable plant roots to detect what force?
How does lysozyme destroy bacteria?
The primary role of leaves is to collect what?
Temperature can be defined as the average of what type of energy of the molecules?
What lens shape corrects myopia?
What serves to replace nonreproducing specialized cells as needed in the adult body?
In physics, resistance is opposition to the flow of what?
What organs are the main organs of the urinary system?
What phase follows ovulation?
What is used to measure blood pressure?
Are the lungs organs of the excretory system, the respiratory system, or both?
Light has the properties of both a wave and what else?
Hagfishes have a skull made of what?
Water molds are commonly found in moist soil and where else?
What is considered to be a person's entire genetic information?
Where does cellular respiration occur?
What are jellyfish and other cnidarian's stingers called?
What is tube-shaped and brings urine from the kidneys to the urinary bladder?
When solvent molecules selectively pass through a membrane from a dilute solution to concentrated solution, what process is occurring?
Water seeping into the ground is known as?
What body system gets rid of waste?
Through what form of energy transfer does the sun's energy travel?
What are the only regions of space that electrons can occupy?
What appears in autumn when cool air moves over a warm lake?
All cells need what for processes like active transport?
In certain populations, some of the chromosomes have become what?
What occurs as a result of the discharge of static electricity?
Enzymes are a type of what, and as such, they are not reactants in the reactions they control?
The entire volume of what is filtered through the kidneys about 300 times per day?
The elements in group 2 are called what?
What term decribes the amount of time required for half of the original material to decay in an isotope?
What occurs when water lost by transpiration is not replaced by absorbtion from room?
Molds, pollen, and pet dander are examples of air pollution with what type of source?
Neurons are classified based on the direction in which they carry what?
What is the process of making an observation in terms of a numerical scale and recording the value?
What makes monotremes different than other mammals?
The strength of bases is measured on what scale?
What type of isomers contain the same number of atoms of each kind but differ in which atoms are bonded to one another?
What is the gas that gives rotten eggs and sewage their distinctive smell?
What two values does a blood pressure reading include?
In humans, what period lasts from the ninth week of development until birth?
Where are protons found in the atom?
What is produced when haploid gametes fuse in sexual reproduction?
What are the two different types of vascular tissues called?
During which stage of development do all the major organs begin to form?
At the anode, liquid chloride ions are oxidized to what?
A diploid cell contains two sets of what?
On what basis are lipoproteins classified?
The two ovaries are small, oval organs on either side of what part of the body?
Gas exchange during respiration occurs primarily through what?
Enzymes in the stomach and small intestine break down proteins into what components?
Organisms incapable of photosynthesis that must therefore obtain energy and carbon from food by consuming other organisms are called what?
What allows theories to be widely accepted?
Elements that specifically are noted to have properties of both metals and nonmetals are known as what?
What is the measure of change in velocity of a moving object?
What celestial events are the source of elements heavier than iron?
Algae are similar to plants in that they both produce their food through what process?
What do fungi produce to digest nutrients?
When light passes from one medium to another, it changes what?
The distance between the crests of electromagnetic waves is called what?
People with celiac disease have an immune response to what, which ultimately leads to malnutrition, cramping, and diarrhea?
Chlorophyll is used in what food-making process that plants carry out?
What does an ammeter measure the flow of?
Burning forests, growing rice and raising livestock all cause a release of what into the atmosphere?
What type of pollution comes from sewage, storm drains, septic tanks, boats, and runoff from yards?
What does oil do when mixed with water?
What is the term for the movement of individuals out of a population?
What might a scientist do to confirm the work of another?
Polar molecules result from differences in electronegativity of what in the molecule?
A diver's air bubbles increase in size as he approaches the surface because what decreases?
Positive charge is mostly found in what part of an atom?
In the lens makers' equation, diverging lenses and virtual images are associated with what kinds of numbers?
What is another name for producers?
Consisting of a stigma, style, and ovary, the pistil of a flower is what type of organ?
Chewing insects such as dragonflies and grasshoppers have how many sets of jaws?
What kind of change occurs whenever matter changes into an entirely different substance with different chemical properties?
What is a small, relatively simple single-celled organism called?
The golgi apparatus works like a mail room by receiving and sending what?
Which part of the body has mucus and hair to trap dust and also warms and moistens air so to not harm lung tissue?
What are the structures in the cytoplasm where proteins are made?
What is the key issue in the small-population approach?
What is the minimum depth in the aphotic zone?
What is the process by which plants gain energy and produce sugar?
What are embedded in the membranes of b cells and bind a variety of antigens through their variable regions?
A statement that describes what always happens under certain conditions in nature is also known as what?
What developmental stage do alligators lack that most other amphibians have?
What attaches a muscle to a bone?
What are two common weather characteristics of hurricanes?
What kind of organism causes the often fatal lung disease tuberculosis?
Where do plates move apart in oceans and on land?
Zeros that appear in front of all of the nonzero digits are called what?
What consists of thylakoid membranes surrounded by stroma?
Portable amplifiers have batteries that store what type of energy?
The movement of ice causes glaciers to have cracks referred to as?
A muscle can return to its original length when relaxed due to a quality of muscle tissue called what?
What feature of the spine helps with flexibility and strength?
How does a cell's membrane keep extracellular materials from mixing with it's internal components?
Respiratory development in the embryo begins around week 4. ectodermal tissue from the anterior head region invaginates posteriorly to form olfactory pits, which fuse with endodermal tissue of the developing pharynx. an olfactory pit is one of a pair of structures that will enlarge to become this?
Anything that occupies space and has mass is known as what?
The temperature dependence of solubility can be exploited to prepare what solutions of certain compounds?
Glasses are mixtures of oxides, the main component of which is silica (sio2). silica is called the glass former, while additives are referred to as this?
What type of tissue produces and secretes several hormones involved in lipid metabolism and storage?
What is the process in which organ systems work to maintain a stable internal environment?
What must people with type 1 and type 2 diabetes frequently check?
What is it called when two alleles are both expressed in the heterozygous individual?
What part of a spider is equipped with poison glands?
Esters are neutral compounds that undergo what process, which is a reaction with water?
Evolution occurs because of changes in what over time?
When does coal release most of its energy?
What was once believed to be the smallest of all particles, as dalton's theory proposed?
The actinides are all what type of elements?
What type of feeders are sea lilies and feather stars?
What are the proteins called that speed up biochemical reactions in cells?
What isotope of carbon is typically used to date ancient items?
What two planets is the asteroid belt found between?
When wood is burned what kind of energy allows the wood to burn?
The cubic crystal system is composed of how many different types of unit cells?
In which solution is the amount of dissolved material equal both inside and outside of the cell?
What element is the most common element in the universe?
What is the term for anything that has mass and volume?
What is in danger of happening when thick magma is formed?
The important equation pv = nrt holds true for substances in what state of matter?
The measurement of the extent of something along its greatest dimension is its what?
What force explains why objects may float in water?
Which organelle is made up of 5 to eight cup shaped, membrane covered stacks of discs known as cisternae?
How many bones does the  mammalian middle ear have?
What can echinoderms sense with their simple eyes?
What do we call water that has been used for cleaning, washing, flushing, or manufacturing?
What is the name for an area that is covered in water, or at least has soggy soil, during all or part of the year?
Regulation of the reproductive system is a process that requires the action of hormones from which gland?
What occurs when organisms acquire and pass on new traits from one generation to the next generation?
What process provides more than 99% of energy?
What tissue blocks entry of pathogens in mammals?
What in the axils of leaves and stems give rise to branches?
The existence of what tiny, fundamental particles of matter was first proposed in the 1960s?
Animals that defend their area are generally known as what kinds of animals?
A boiler converts the chemical energy stored in fuel into what type of energy?
What are the ice crystals that form on the ground called?
What is the largest organelle in a eukaryotic cell?
What does the kinetic-molecular theory describe the behavior of?
What kind of hormones are released into the environment for communication between animals of the same species?
What organ contributes about 60% of the volume of semen ?
Eukaryotic cells contain what type of structures that possess special functions?
What is the common name for the midpoint between high and low tide?
What is formed when humid air near the ground cools below its dew point?
When are peptide bonds between amino acids formed?
Within the petals are two whorls of fertile floral organs that produce what?
Increasing or decreasing the temperature of a system in what state acts as a stress to the system?
The scientific name of an organism consists of its genus and what else?
What type of organism was the only able to live in the anoxic atmosphere of the first 2 billion years?
Scientists utilize what natural process to teach cranes born in captivity to migrate along safe routes?
What are mass, volume, and length an example of?
Chelicerata are know for their first pair of appendages, also know as what?
What kind of reproduction generates new individuals without fusion of an egg and sperm?
The properties of liquids are intermediate between those of gases and solids but are more similar to?
What does blood pickup from the lungs to be carried throughout the rest of the body?
The earliest types of what lacked flowers, leaves, roots and stems?
The nervous system is made up of these?
What are regular changes in biology or behavior that occur in a 24 hour cycle?
Did darwin believe in punctuated equilibrium or gradualism?
What is the term for a solution that resists dramatic changes in ph?
Wood consists of mainly what kind of walls?
Viruses lack metabolic enzymes and equipment for making what?
What are non-steroid hormones made of?
The german physicist max planck (1858–1947) used the idea that atoms and molecules in a body act like oscillators to absorb and emit this?
The process of microscope mountains and valleys on the surface of a material interacting with another material is called?
What do you call any device that makes work easier by changing a force?
In what organ is food remains turned into solid waste for excretion?
What is the type of cancer where bone marrow produces abnormal white blood cells?
What cells are typically characterized by the polarized distribution of organelles and membrane-bound proteins between their basal and apical surfaces?
Condensation, melting, deposition, sublimation, vaporization, and freezing are all considered changes in what?
Myopia and hyperopia are defects that can be corrected with devices?
What do you call the part of the skeletal system that connects bones?
What type of molecules sit within a membrane and contain an aqueous channel that spans the membrane’s hydrophobic region?
What state of matter has a definite volume, but takes the shape of the container?
Where does the earth gets its energy from?
In chemical reactions, what substances can act like metals or nonmetals, depending on their number of electrons?
In the lungs, air is diverted into smaller and smaller passages called what?
How did a vascular let plants grow?
When a soluble compound dissolves, its constituent atoms, molecules, or ions disperse throughout what?
Many viral diseases can be prevented by giving people what?
What purpose does the appendix serve in humans today?
What is the bulb called in the frontal lobe that processes smells?
According to early accounts, newton was inspired to make the connection between falling bodies and astronomical motions when he saw an apple fall from a tree and realized that if the gravitational force could extend above the ground to a tree, it might also reach this?
Gravitational force on a large scale dominates interactions between large objects because it is always what?
What two microorganisms have different membrane lipids?
Sharing a phylum with insects, spiders, daddy-long-legs, scorpions, and ticks belong to what class?
What describes the amount of solute in a solution?
What is the layer above the mesophere called?
The fundamental unit of time, the second, is based on what type of clock?
In a carbon triple bond, how many pairs of electrons are shared?
What is the reproductive part of the plant?
The attraction of an atom for the electrons of a covalent bond is its what?
What substance do the leaves of plants take in from the environment?
Controlled variables are kept what to prevent them from influencing the effects of the independent variable on the dependent variable?
What branch of biology uses fossils to study life’s history?
What occurs after gametes fuse and form a diploid zygote?
What is a trait whose allele is found on a sex chromosome called?
What is required when electrons are removed from an atom, and released from the process when an electron is added?
What do you call the angle of the earth's axis of rotation?
What kind of structure do purines have?
Photoautotrophs use what energy source to self-manufacture their own food?
What is the process of getting oxygen into the body & releasing carbon dioxide called?
What are plants that grow where people don't want them to and can take up space and use resources which hinders growth of more desirable plants?
Unlike ammonia, oxygen cannot be liquefied at room temperature because its what is below room temperature?
What occurs at joints?
What is the term for a symbiotic relationship in which the parasite benefits while the host is harmed?
Alpha particles, beta particles, and gamma particles are major types of what?
What do obligate aerobes need to live?
What is the standard measurement for mass?
What do you call the state in which a plant slows down cellular activities and may shed its leaves?
Is the rate of population growth increasing or decreasing?
What does the human protein cytokine help fight?
What is the goal of science?
What is the temperature where molecular motion stops?
Early blastomeres can form what if isolated?
What component of an organism, made up of many cells, in turn makes up an organ?
What form do alkali metals take at room temperature?
What is the cutting and burning trees to clear land for farming called?
What is the name of the scientist who named neutrinos?
What creates a new seafloor at the mid-ocean ridge?
What are hydrocarbons that contain only single bonds between carbon atoms called?
The presence of what makes soil hold together more tightly and enables it to hold more water?
What kind of anatomical structure consists of several types of tissues that together carry out particular functions?
How many pathways do plants have for carbon fixation?
What is used to measure electric current?
What connects the fetus to the placenta?
When your body digests food, it breaks down the molecules of nutrients and releases what?
The first period of the paleozoic era was called what?
What is a molecule with two fatty acids and a modified phosphate group attached to a glycerol backbone?
Some women experience cramping and pain before and during what monthly cycle?
What is the attraction of oppositely charged ions caused by electron transfer called?
What process converts the sun's hydrogen nuclei into helium?
Both solids and liquids hold a definite what?
Because the fields that make up an electromagnetic wave are at right angles to each other and to the direction that the wave travels, an electromagnetic wave is considered what?
Which measure indicates the number of electrons in a given sublevel?
Because force and electric field are what, they have direction as well as their value?
Acceleration is a vector, and thus has a both a magnitude and what else?
What is it called when individual organisms work together with one another?
How thick is the earth's continental crust, on average?
Which organ has a thick mucus lining that protects the underlying tissue from the action of the digestive juices?
What historical event taught people that soil could be lost by plowing and growing crops and encouraged new methods to prevent erosion?
In what phase is the moon brightly illuminated?
What do vectors possess that scalars do not?
What are the food making factories of plants?
What does a pollinator pick from its body and carry directly to another plant of the same species?
Melting ice cubes and freezing water are examples of change of what?
What is the term for heterotrophs that eat only or mainly animals?
How much work is done when a force is applied in a different direction than the direction of movement?
The mercury or alcohol in a common glass what changes its volume as the temperature changes?
What are commonly used to control insect pests, but can have harmful effects on the environment?
The components of what keep their own identity when they combine and can usually be easily separated?
What type of light can mosquitoes see?
What subject is a way of learning about the natural world that is based on evidence and logic?
Chloroplasts are present only in cells of eukaryotes capable of what process?
Shielding should be used when receiving x-rays to limit exposure to what potentially harmful form of energy?
What is the way animals act either alone or with other animals called?
What three primary colors of light can be distinguished by the human eye?
Which body system releases hormones that act on target cells to regulate development, growth, energy metabolism, reproduction, and many behaviors?
What is the main difference between eukaryotic and prokaryotic cells?
What forms when cells start to grow out of control?
Organs, vessels, and lymph make up what system?
Like the marketplace, the metabolic economy is regulated by what basic principle?
As roots grow longer they will always do what?
Which virus causes cold sores?
Duplicated chromosomes are composed of two sister what?
What is the name of anything that has mass and takes up space?
The units of time, day and year are based on what?
What is the term for an amount of force pushing against a given area?
What is the region called where an electron is most likely to be found?
Many glasses eventually crystallize, rendering them brittle and this?
What is magnetism produced by an electrical current?
A weak and temporary dipole that influences nearby atoms through electrostatic attraction and repulsion is known as what?
The motion of molecules in a gas is random in magnitude and direction for individual molecules, but a gas of many molecules has a predictable distribution of what, which is called the maxwell-boltzmann distribution?
What helps the cell continually renew itself?
One of the fundamental laws of chemistry deals with the fact that we cannot create or destroy what?
What are the tiny, tube-shaped structures found inside a kidney called?
How many sperm does it take to fertilize an egg?
What type of climate is found mostly near the equator?
Metabolism is the collection of what that occur in an organism?
What is the arrangement of a t-tubule with the membranes of sr on either side called?
What is the name of the order that salamanders belong to?
What is the tough tissue that contains collagen?
What common ailment is typically caused by tense muscles in the shoulders, head and neck?
How many watts equals a horse power?
Some microorganisms can digest cellulose, breaking it down into what?
Where does most geological activity take place?
What can be used to mechanically separate the two elements by attracting the iron filings out of the mixture and leaving the sulfur behind?
What forms when a solute dissolves in a solvent?
The enteric nervous system provides intrinsic innervation, and the autonomic nervous system provides this?
Virtually all aquatic organisms depend directly or indirectly on what for food?
Saltwater is a homogeneous mixture, another term for what?
What connects the two hemispheres of the brain?
Cells like a prokaryotic cell, a eukaryotic cell has a plasma membrane, cytoplasm, and ribosomes, but a eukaryotic cell is typically larger than a prokaryotic cell, has a true nucleus (meaning its dna is surrounded by a membrane), and has other membrane-bound organelles that allow for what?
Colonial organisms were probably one of the first evolutionary steps towards which type of organisms?
What do you call accumulation of excess water in the tissues?
Transport epithelia that function in maintaining water balance also often function in disposal of what?
What is magnetism produced by electricity called?
What is an area that is saturated with water or covered by water for at least one season of the year?
How are bacteria identified and classified?
What do we call forces that act on the system from outside?
Prostaglandins also help regulate the aggregation of platelets, one step in the formation of what?
Deceleration is the opposite of what?
Each cell and every living thing requires what?
In the human body, what do you call the intersection where the paths for air and food cross.?
Air conditioning systems can incubate certain bacteria and what else?
The toothlessness of modern birds, which serves to trim the weight of the head, is an example of what?
What are the active transport mechanisms by which molecules enter and leave the cell inside vesicles?
Fractures, rickets, and osteoarthritis all affect what part(s) of the body?
Name the closest living relatives of tetrapods?
What type of air may get stuck on the windward side of a mountain range?
Most protists are aquatic organisms and need what kind of environment to survive?
The help with diffusion comes from special proteins in the membrane known as what?
The extracellular matrix of most animal cells contains abundant amounts of what protein, which helps hold things together?
What are two types of lobe finned fish?
What is the rate of change of velocity called?
What is the main organ required for respiration in mammals?
Molecules are represented by symbols that all who agree on?
What is the smallest unit of time commonly based on?
Atoms cannot be subdivided, created, or what?
What process changes a liquid to a gas without boiling?
Every peripheral nerve is connected directly or indirectly to what?
The four phases of mitosis are prophase, metaphase, anaphase and what?
Pathogenic prokaryotes usually cause illness by producing what?
Once cells _______, they can no longer divide
Phase labels - and even special conditions - are sometimes included for the substances that are part of what?
Body waves travel through the earth and arrive at seismograms before what?
What are the outpocketings of the digestive tract that remove nitrogenous wastes and function in osmoregulation?
What were the first photosynthetic organisms on earth?
What do you call the substance in a cooling system that has a low boiling point and changes between liquid and gaseous states?
Certain characteristics are frequently inherited together because of what?
Which organ protects the body from injury, water loss, and microorganisms?
What is the term for the sudden movement of large blocks of rock and soil down a slope?
What is the comparison of two factors within a population?
What process is the opposite of nitrogen fixation?
Plant-like protists produce oxygen through which process?
Insulin is produced by what part of the body?
What color is the brittle metalloid tallurium?
What compounds, which serve as fuels and are used in manufacturing, are called the driving force of western civilization?
What is the main type of organism that gets its energy directly from the sun?
What are the two factors that affect the pressure of fluids?
What consists of four major components: inorganic mineral matter, organic matter, water and air, and living matter?
What is the term for the movement of substances due to random thermal molecular motion?
Most metals exist in which form at room temperature?
A stem cell is an unspecialized cell that can divide without limit as needed and can, under specific conditions, differentiate into these?
What monthy cycle causes changes in the ovaries and uterus?
Chytridiomycota are considered the most primitive of what kingdom?
What is a soft, gray, nontoxic alkaline earth metal?
In many polychaetes, the parapodia are richly supplied with blood vessels and also function as what?
What is formed when plant bodies are lithified?
What is the term for the direct manipulation of genes for practical purposes?
When both momentum and kinetic energy are conserved in a closed system, the collision is called what?
What are the two groups of therian mammals?
What is the name of the spacecraft that has performed the closest flyby of uranus?
What is the group of all the eukaryotes that are not fungi, animals, or plants called?
What have a symbiotic relationship between a fungus and a photosynthetic organism?
Define motion.
Most tissues regulated by the autonomic nervous system receive both sympathetic and parasympathetic input from?
What is responsible for the development of antibiotic-resistant strains of bacteria?
Many cancers, as well as autism, are thought to have what component, which is certainly a factor in asthma?
The first plants probably evolved from what?
What is the unit of liquid measurement in the metric system?
Wavelength and frequency are defined in the same way for electromagnetic waves as they are for which other waves?
What covers the body of a fish to help the move their body to swim?
What type of bond forms by unpaired electrons from two atoms "matching up"?
When gas pressure-forces are used to move an object the work is done on the object by?
A lymphocyte is the type of which cell involved in an immune system response?
Most fossils form when a dead organism is buried in what?
What do you call an object that attracts certain materials such as iron?
Coral and the algae living inside of them have what type of relationship, since the algae relies on the coral to stay close to the water's surface?
Because opposite charges attract, oppositely charged ions attract each other to form what?
A major source of primary pollutants is the burning of oil and coal, which are types of what?
What causes natural ripening in fruit?
In species with sexual reproduction, each cell of the body has two copies of each what?
On what part of bones would you expect to find cartilage?
Who invented the taxonomic classification system?
What type of pathogen is responsible for african sleeping sickness?
How many underlying principles does the science of biology have?
What are biochemical compounds, such as fats and oils, that consist of fatty acids and store energy?
The temperature at which all molecular motion has ceased is called what?
What term means controlling body temperature within a narrow range from the inside through biochemical or physical means?
The most important characteristic of extant amphibians is a moist, permeable skin used for this?
Fertilized mollusk eggs develop into what?
Proper kidney function is essential for homeostasis of what level, which in turn helps ensure the functioning of enzymes?
Proteins include 20 common types of what compounds?
Isotopes have different number of these in their nuclei?
What can destroy living cells, produce mutations and cause cancer?
What type of feeders are sponges?
The first consumption of breast milk or formula floods the baby's gastrointestinal tract with what?
Weight refers to what force acting on a mass?
Being exposed to sunlight will produce what vitamin in the skin?
Modern plants reflect what kind of changes that have occurred over many, many years?
What device measures current that flows through wire?
In science, what is defined as a change in position?
What makes up the core of the endoskeleton?
The bottom of the ocean is called what?
Made of hot, solid rock, the mantle is beneath what layer of the earth?
What happens to the volume of the gas when temperature increases but amount of gas and its pressure are constant?
Meiosis, like mitosis, is preceded by the duplication of what?
The invention of what instrument in the 1930s allowed scientists to see viruses for the first time?
What is the name of the chart that allows you to easily determine the expected percentage of different genotypes in the offspring of two parents?
What is the functional unit of compact bone?
Because the nuclei of each h atom contain protons, the electrons in the bond are attracted to the nuclei (opposite charges attract). but because the two atoms involved in the covalent bond are both h atoms, each nucleus attracts the electrons by the same amount. thus the electron pair is equally shared by these?
What is the term for when the phenotype of offspring is partly determined by the phenotype of its mother, irrespective of genotype?
Natural methods of asexual reproduction, such as cuttings or budding, include strategies that plants have developed to perform what?
Many metals react with acids to produce what gas?
What is the process of a cell membrane surrounding a particle and engulfing it calles?
What type of rocks are very useful for determining the deformation history of an area?
What is the term for dating a rock based on composition decay?
What is the term for a  very rapid motor response that is not directed by the brain?
Crossover occurs between non-sister chromatids of which chromosomes?
Water is an oxide of what element?
What term is used to describe the parts of the brain involved in the reception and interpretation of sensory stimuli collectively?
Experiments show that each o2 molecule has two unpaired what?
Acidity is measured by what physical property?
Antacids are bases that neutralize what in the digestive tract?
What is the climate of a small area called?
The rate of what process depends on how many of an organism’s genes have changed over a period of time and on the generation time of a particular species?
The sticky stigma at the tip of the carpel receives what?
Are the joints between the vertebrae contained in your backbone fully movable, partially movable, or unmovable?
Which branch of biology uses fossils to study life's history?
What do you call prokaryotes that do not need oxygen for respiration?
When a glacier no longer moves, what is it called?
What did roots evolve from that plants used for aborption?
Although lots of symbiotic relationships help both organisms, sometimes one of the organisms is harmed. when that happens, the organism that benefits, and is not harmed, is called a what?
What are named for major physical or climatic features and for their predominant vegetation?
Similarity of crystal structures is used to categorize what non-living materials?
Diabetes is a non-infectious disease in which the body is unable to control the amount of what in the blood?
All living organisms are classified into one of six broad categories called what?
What is the most common type of cancer in adult males?
What occurs when an unstable nucleus emits an alpha particle and energy?
What molecule can be used by the body to synthesize cholesterol ?
Full siblings share how many genes with each other?
Which highly valuable substance found in jewelry has a density of about 19 g/cm^3?
Sperm propel themselves through secretions in the uterus and enter what tube?
What type of minerals are often found where seas once covered the land?
How many amino acids generally consist in protien?
Rain, snow, sleet, and hail are all examples of what?
Where would you find most pollution of ocean water?
Water can be a solid, liquid, and what other form?
What happens to a species when all of the individuals die out or evolve into a different species?
The viscosity of a liquid is a measure of what?
How is energy expressed when it is released in a chemical reaction?
What is the term for a structure within the cytoplasm that performs a specific job in the cell?
What part of a mature plant cell is responsible for storing substances like water, enzymes, and salts?
Whereas each cell shares the same genome and dna sequence, each cell does not turn on, or express, the same set of what?
In biology, what is required for ecosystems to survive?
Because glucose is a major cellular fuel, starch represents a supply of what?
Seed plants that produce seeds in the ovaries of their flowers are known as what?
Which blood vessels is oxygen transferred through?
What small biological structures make up all living things, including the human body?
How does carbon dioxide chemically weather rocks?
What is the interaction of waves with other waves called?
What kinds of rocks can change and become new types of rocks?
What type of earthquake has a shallow focus because the plates meet near the surface?
What causes waves to bring sand up onto the beach during summers?
What kind of bases completely dissociate in water, releasing all hydroxide anions into the solution?
What model of the atom features an electron orbiting a nucleus, forming a closed-current loop and producing a magnetic field with a north pole and a south pole?.
Nearly all apicomplexans are parasites of what?
What is the term for sheets of cells that form a boundary between a mass of cells and a cavity or space?
What does a cell need to transform into a cancerous cell?
Circular water waves decrease in what property as they move away from where a rock is dropped?
What property of certain states of matter can be given in units of millimeters of mercury?
Loss of energy is the reason that what typically has few levels?
Root-like projections anchor adults of what colony-dwelling animals to solid surfaces such as rocks and reefs?
We divide up the earth's seas into five what, which are really all interconnected?
Regulated by guard cells, stomata allow what to enter and exit the plant?
The rising and sinking of these can cause precipitation?
Where does evidence that magnetic reversals occur come from?
What is used to measure air pressure?
As altitude rises, what happens to the temperature in the thermosphere?
How many stomach compartments do ruminants have?
Seismic waves show that the inner core of the earth is solid while the outer core is what?
What do ions of the same charge do?
Integral proteins penetrate the hydrophobic interior of the what?
The thermal properties of what substance largely contribute to the temperature climate of europe?
Our sun is on the main sequence, like most stars, and it is classified by what colorful name?
Stirring, surface area, and temperature affect the rate at which what occurs?
What process of gradual change is the source of diversity of life on earth?
Shivering helps the body return to a stable what?
What term is used to describe a solution in which water is the solvent?
What is prosopagnosia?
Fungi are unique in having cell walls made of what?
What is the largest body in the solar system?
Which part of an earthquake is in the ground where the ground breaks?
What substances contained in lemons, vinegar, and sour candies have a sour taste?
Many microorganisms are single celled and use what for perception and movement?
Because it produces oxygen, what plant process was necessary for the evolution of animals?
What category of animals in the vertebrate group has a relatively small brain but highly developed sense organs?
What distinguishing feature predates the branching of mammals from other vertebrates?
The simplest way to define a base is which kind of compound that produces hydroxide ions when dissolved in water?
What is the term for behaviors that are closely controlled by genes with little or no environmental influence?
In the forward reaction, hydrogen and iodine combine to form what?
Catalysts can greatly increase the rates of chemical what?
Ecology, botany, and zoology are what type of science?
How do we describe chemical reactions?
Represented in equations by the letter "g", what pulls objects down to the earth's surface?
The similarity in biochemical compounds between living things provides evidence for the evolution of species from what?
The only invertebrates than can fly belong to what broad group, which is highly successful?
The dna is wound around proteins called what?
What part of an animal helps to prevent water loss and gives support and protection?
Protozoa are generally difficult to identify due to what?
Where does digestion begin?
What basic units are neither created nor destroyed during a chemical change, but are instead rearranged?
Which members of the food chain break down remains of plants and other organisms when they die?
Concentration is the removal of solvent, which increases the concentration of what?
What type of coal deposits are the most extensive ever formed?
What is the term for the skeletal structure of the head that supports the face and protects the brain?
What is it called when organisms with traits that better enable them to adapt to their environment tend to survive and reproduce in greater numbers?
A crow that becomes used to a scarecrow and lands on it is an example of what?
What term is used to describe the sequence of elementary steps that together comprise an entire chemical reaction?
Structurally, diplomonads have two equal-sized what and multiple flagella?
What is the term for the affected factor in an experiment?
Furthermore, most of the proteins within membranes have both hydrophobic and which other regions?
What are proteins that increase the rate of biochemical reactions?
What process enables all living things to maintain a constant internal environment?
Which hormone is secreted by the pancreas in a human body?
What are the gas giants mostly made of .
Static friction acts on objects when they are resting on what?
The ammonium ion is what type of acid?
Loss of muscle mass due to breakdown of structural proteins is known as what?
Which of these is last if ordered in increasing size: galaxy, solar system, star cluster?
What encloses the genetic material of the virus?
Plant-like protists are called what?
How do mammals ventilate their lungs?
Blood vessels blood pumped by the heart flows through a series of vessels known as arteries, arterioles, capillaries, venules, and veins before returning to this?
What do you call the fragments of cells involved in the clotting process that are suspended in blood plasma?
What year did the soho spacecraft first started to operate?
Concentration of what, the substance left behind when ocean water evaporates, is about 3.5 percent?
What has a distinct front and back end?
In how many basic was can substances cross the plasma membrane?
What type of cells have chloroplasts?
What is the term for disease-causing agents, such as bacteria and viruses?
To figure out the height of a wave you measure the distance between the crest and what?
Humans possess greater diversity of what type, compared to laboratory animals?
What system can be used by scientists to express very small numbers?
An unknown genotype can be determined by observing what, the term for characteristics of the resulting offspring?
Wind power, solar power, hydropower, and geothermal power are called renewable sources of energy or what other term?
How much electricity is generated by an average car battery?
What is the term for a cellular "scaffolding" that crisscrosses the cytoplasm?
What common code do all known living organisms use?
What are 2 common growth patterns of population?
Solutions to schrödinger’s equation involve four special numbers called what?
What is the only human cell with flagella?
What can be described as a tiny male gametophyte enclosed in a tough capsule?
What is the largest artery in the body called?
Fertilization occurs if a sperm enters the egg while it is passing through what tube?
When the smooth muscle relaxes, the arterioles dilate, allowing blood to enter the what?
What to tadpoles develop into?
What part of the body do fish use to absorb oxygen?
The electrons in a water molecule are more concentrated around the more highly charged oxygen nucleus than around this?
What is the layer of ground below the surface that is always frozen, even in the summer?
What is usually the prey of a protist?
What concentrates wave energy or disperses it?
In plants and algae, photosynthesis takes place in which organelles?
What produces sound waves that travel outward in all directions in water?
The roots of a plant take in nutrients and what vital substance?
Carbon fixation is the first step of what cycle involving light reactions?
What are the attractive forces that occur between polar molecules called?
The production of multiple copies of a single gene is called?
Fossil fuels are made out of what two objects?
Amoebas and paramecia are examples of what?
Name the bacteria that make food through photosynthesis and release oxygen into the air?
What simple machine consists of a bar that rotates around a fixed point called the fulcrum?
Which carbohydrate is produced by photosynthesis?
What term is used to describe the line of latitude right in the middle of the planet?
What is the opening formed between adjacent vertebrae for the exit of a spinal nerve called?
What two planets is the asteroid belt found between?
Neon is an example of what kind of gas?
Many organisms look very similar to other organisms because they may be from the same what?
What type of compound is hydrogen chloride?
What kind of volcanic eruptions are less deadly?
Where do most ecosystems get their energy from?
When a solute dissolves into a solvent what is that called?
The smallest part of an element that maintains the identity of that element is called what?
Varves form in lakes covered by what?
Speed takes distance and what else into account?
Which division of the autonomic nervous system controls processes like digestion, heartbeat, and breathing?
What does the ovule develop into after fertilization?
What is a key factor in the growth of populations?
Air is said to reach what point, a term used by meteorologists, when humidity increases or temperature decreases?
In neurons, what often involves gated sodium channels?
Line graphs are especially useful for showing changes over what?
After a massive eruption what will a mountain collapsing above an empty chamber create?
The posterior half of the foot is formed by seven tarsal bones. the most superior of these bones is called?
What helps to regulate consciousness, arousal, and sleep states?
Some fish will be over-fished to the point that their species ceases to exist, which is also known as what?
Not surprisingly, what is the function of the most developed part of a bird's brain?
What type of roots enable a plant to grow on another plant?
What is the distance north or south of the equator called?
In response to a cut, mast cells secrete histamines that cause nearby capillaries to do what?
What is the term for an ionic compound that produces positive hydrogen ions when dissolved in water?
The stems of all vascular plants get longer through primary growth. this occurs in primary meristem at the tips and ______ of the stems.
What kind of waves are electromagnetic waves?
What process is involved in the formation of a waterfall, when a stream flows from an area of harder to softer rock?
Meissner’s corpuscles are not as plentiful in the palms as they are in the what other part of the hand?
What are the two types of earth crust?
What is determined by the energy of the disturbance that causes the wave?
What is made from the minerals in rocks known as bauxite?
What is a defining feature of deformed sedimentary rocks?
Resemblance to other species can serve as protection to what category of species?
What type of cells make up the epidermis of a leaf?
What carries warm or cold water throughout the world’s oceans?
What type of resource cannot be replaced as easily as it is consumed?
What substances are involved in most of the chemical reactions that take place in organisms, including digestion?
What occurs when the immune system is not working properly?
The force that a magnet exerts on certain materials is called what?
What is applied to a rock to make it bend and flow?
What is the function of chloroplasts that are found in plant and algal cells?
What passes through the prostate gland immediately inferior to the bladder before passing below the pubic symphysis?
Terrestrial animals lose water by evaporation from their skin and which surfaces?
What color are leukocytes blood cells?
What is something that all machines must overcome?
The conservation of momentum principle can be applied to systems as different as a comet striking earth and a gas containing huge numbers of atoms and these?
What are the small units that comprise nucleic acids?
Minerals that are not pure elements are made of what?
What can be classified as monoprotic or polyprotic based on the number of acidic hydrogens they contain?
What is the top part of water able to receive enough sunlight for photosynthesis called?
Different media affect what property of light?
Signals from rods and cones can follow several different pathways in what structure of the eye?
What is the term for getting used to something after being consistently exposed to it?
What element do nuclear power plants use in fuel rods?
Where on earth do bacteria live?
What type of waves radiate energy out from an earthquake's focus?
What is a popular treatment for kidney failure?
What is critical for the formation of hemoglobin?
Which hormones work together to control the level of glucose in the blood?
What are the two basic parts that all flowering plants have in common?
Salts are important in maintaining what balance of the blood?
What do some animals grow to protect themselves in winter?
What weather phenomenon can raise sea level as much as 25 feet when low pressure pulls water upward?
The action of sunlight on the skin triggers the body to produce what vitamin?
What is heard when sound waves bounce back from a surface that they can't pass through?
What is hole that is dug or drilled through the ground down to an aquifer?
What protective substance covers the skin of most reptiles?
What step, involving placement of a substance on the stigma, precedes fertilization?
What weather phenomenon is caused by strong warm updrafts from heated ground?
The older parts of what structures anchor the plant and transport water and solutes between the soil and shoots?
What do you call a specialized type of plant tissue that transports water and nutrients throughout the plant?
The major fuel for the brain is which carbohydrate?
How do they classify tornadoes?
What part of the body does hepatitis b effect?
In the radiative zone, light particles called what can only travel a few millimeters before they hit another particle?
What natural resource can be damaged by the accumulation of too much salt?
What secures teeth in the mouth?
What is the production of offspring without gamete fusion called?
What causes continents to drift closer to the poles or the equator?
What does a hypothesis become after many experiments provide results supporting it?
Geologists group rocks based on how they what?
What organelle contains the genetic material of the cell?
What kind of waves travel through liquids and solids as well as air?
What is made by trees and other plants during photosynthesis?
Regardless of the mode, light is modeled as traveling in straight lines called what?
What are organisms called, like the red-winged blackbird, that eat many different types of food?
What is a common name for the descriptive hypothesis that help to understand patterns of descent?
Exemplified by a lit match bursting into flame or the process that forms fossil fuels, chemical reactions vary greatly in terms of what?
What is the best room in the home to start saving water?
Latitude affects the amount of which radiation a place receives?
What physical property of matter reflects how closely packed the particles are?
What is the force of attraction between fundamental particles called quarks, called.
The force that pulls objects toward the earth is what?
What is the distance something travels in a given amount of time called?
One type of tissue, called brown fat, is made up of cells packed full of what?
Abnormal electrical activity in the brain is the cause of what disease associated with seizures?
Because atoms are always electrically neutral, for each added proton, one of what is also added?
What is the group of single-celled organisms lacking a nucleus that have a single piece of circular dna in the nucleoid area of the cell?
What are  electromagnetic waves created by?
What is the first stage of cellular respiration?
Red algae and green algae are the closest relatives of what?
The axial skeleton forms the vertical, central axis of the body and includes all bones of the head, neck, chest, and back. it serves to protect the brain, spinal cord, heart, and what else?
What is an object that orbits a larger object called?
When atoms gain or lose electrons, what is formed?
Lymph capillaries collect the fluid that leaks from blood capillaries and slowly return it to what system?
Asthma affects what tiny branches into which the bronchi are divided?
The difference between aldehydes and ketones is the placement of what group within the molecule?
A plane mirror has a flat reflective surface and forms only which kind of images?
Dissolved fertilizer can ultimately lead to the creation of what in lakes or coastal oceans, which means a place where nothing can live?
When the hydrogen is nearly used up, the star can fuse which element into heavier elements?
What type of cell has negative anode is positive cathode?
Which human body system controls the amount of water in the body and removes wastes?
Rounded grains indicate that the minerals eroded from what?
Changes of state of matter do not involve what type of reaction?
What type of mining is used to recover ores that are deeper into earth’s surface?
What are liverworts with a flattened, ribbon-like body called?
What is made up of organisms of the same species that live in the same area?
The oxygen atom in a water molecule pull the electrons away from the hydrogen atoms which leads to an unequal distribution of what?
Are zeroes that show only where the decimal point fall significant or not significant?
Torpor, a process that leads to a decrease in activity and metabolism and allows animals to survive adverse conditions, includes what long winter 'sleep'?
What produces gametes with different alleles?
What term is used to describe structures that are similar in unrelated organisms?
What is defined as a saturated layer of rock or soil?
Air flows into the lungs largely due to a difference in what?
The cytoplasm divides during what stage of the cell cycle?
Researchers have also used insect courtship to explore genetic variation underlying differences in what?
What part of the brain lies under the cerebrum and behind the brain stem?
In human females, the mammary glands are associated with, but not part of, what organ system that is used to create new humans?
What is the term for volcanic mudflows?
During the scientific revolution, who proposed that the sun, not earth, is the center of the solar system?
Quantum chromodynamics combines what property with quark theory?
Traits inherited in mendelian patterns are either?
What kind of reproduction results in offspring that are genetically unique?
How many vertebrae make up the human vertebral column?
What do cells of dermal tissue secrete?
What is the term for many different types of animals within the same species?
What is a process in which some substances change into different substances?
What causes nitrate to go back to its gaseous nitrogen state?
What is the metabolic process by which cells obtain energy by “burning” glucose?
What weakly scatters visible light?
Arteries carry oxygenated blood away from the heart, what carries un-oxygenated blood back to the heart?
What type of analysis is performed to study gene expression patterns in cells?
What class are centipedes and millipedes in?
Light moving from air into water is bent ___________ the normal?
An electrical signal along a nerve cell triggers the secretion of what?
Carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, phosphorus and sulfur are basic elements that form what type of compounds, which are vital to life?
Urea and carbon dioxide are molecules with how many carbon atoms?
Half of the neurons formed in the embryo are eliminated because of _____________
What do omnivores eat?
Upwelling mantle at the mid-ocean ridge pushes plates in which direction?
Why are exotic species also called invasive species?
The process of producing mature sperm is called what?
Unlike theories, which are proved true, what are often falsified?
What living things have cell walls containing cellulose and plastids such as chloroplasts?
Where does the energy from an atomic bomb come from?
Removal of dams on rivers is an example of what?
What is considered the smallest unit of life?
What living things are considered photoautotrophs because they use sunlight and carbon from carbon dioxide to synthesize chemical energy in the form of carbohydrates?
Acids are molecular compounds that dissolve in water to produce hydronium ions and what else?
What is the terme for water vapor changing to liquid water?
What processes involve a transfer of electrons between the wire and the solution?
What happens when development of nervous system is disturbed?
What color is the fungus in blue cheese?
Not even light can escape from what extremely dense object sometimes found in deep space?
The nucleus is comprised primarily of?
What in mammalian lungs, increases the surface area for gas exchange?
What is the process by which some solids transition directly into gases?
What are the two main parts of the human nervous system?
In frequency, the larger the air column, the larger the what?
Subducting plate and epicenter are terms related to what phenomenon?
What is the process by which organisms break down chemicals to make food energy?
What is the term for an organism’s underlying genetic makeup, consisting of both the physically visible and the non-expressed alleles?
Which organ is a wide tube connecting the small intestine with the anus?
What is produced when sulfur and oxygen combine?
Plant cells divide into two equal halves during what process?
What is the type of succession that happens after the destruction of a habitat?
The name of a monatomic cation is simply the name of the element followed by this word?
What is an extremely severe food allergy reaction?
What do you call the formation of a water vapor pocket?
Internal body fluids link exchange surfaces to what else?
What magnetism is produced by electricity?
What is a type of plant tissue consisting of undifferentiated cells that can continue to divide and differentiate?
What bonds form because they give atoms a more stable arrangement of electrons?
What is the common abbreviation for noting the rhesus blood type?
Coral reefs are a type of what large community and have the highest biodiversity on earth?
What large organelle comprised of cup-shaped discs is found close to the nucleus of the cell, where it modifies proteins that have been delivered in transport vesicles?
The penis, testes and epididymes are structures in what male anatomical system?
When waves are reflected at the same angle, what is it called?
What us state leads all states in producing geothermal energy?
Sexual signaling molecules released by fungi are known as what?
Which energy is momentarily stored in tendons after each leap provides a boost for the next leap?
What is the name for a simple machine that consists of two inclined planes?
Each gamete will have one copy of each chromosome following which process involving cell division?
Where do most skin structures originate in?
What are the primary producers in the ocean?
Chemists use simple diagrams to show an atom’s valence electrons and how they do what?
Soil erosion is a natural process, but what can increase it unnaturally?
Which part of the reproductive process only contributes one set of chromosomes?
What do you call different organs working together?
A machine is any device that makes work easier by doing what?
When electricity is passed through solid sodium it changes into what and gives off light?
What type of plant makes up nearly all plant species?
Prokaryotic cells have what structure outside their plasma membrane?
The hemolymph and body cells exchange chemicals within what body part?
Types of compounds include covalent and which other compounds?
Animals can transport what waste material in the circulatory system and store it safely at high concentrations?
What can happen if there is a blockage in circulation to the brain?
The high points of a transverse wave are called what?
Besides greenland, where are the earth's largest ice sheets found?
What kind of path does the energy of an electromagnetic wave take?
The direct conversion of a solid to a gas, without an intervening liquid phase, is called what?
Amino acids are the building blocks of what macromolecules?
What force opposes a motion of a moving body? for example a car breaking on a road.
The pain of angina means the heart muscle fibers need more what?
Acids and bases are important in living things because what proteins typically can perform their job only at a certain level of acidity?
Cellular respiration that proceeds in the presence of oxygen is known as what?
Electromagnetic radiation behaves like particles as well as what?
Claw ends of hammers and flagpole pulleys are examples of simple machines that reverse what?
Lipids are also know by what name?
Roots, stems and leaves are organs commonly found in what?
What type of cells in the body fluids and tissues of most animals specifically interact with and destroy pathogens?
What makes breathing difficult due to respiratory system disease?
What type of cell layer do flatworms have?
What gland is located at the base of the brain and secretes the hormone melatonin?
What are the most common roundworm parasites of people in the u. s.?
What is the type of landscape that occurs at higher latitudes than deserts, has short grasses and low bushes, and are dry because they are in continental interiors?
The existence of (virtual) photons is possible only by virtue of the heisenberg uncertainty principle and can travel an unlimited distance, so the range ofthe electromagnetic for is what?
What is energy that travels in the form of an electromagnetic wave?
What changes water vapor to liquid water?
What instrument, with a digital readout, is used by scientists to measure very small masses?
What element is released into the atmosphere by the burning of fossil fuels?
What type of hydrocarbons contain at least one double or triple bond between carbon atoms?
What is the general name for a wave that travels along the surface of a medium?
Carbohydrates are an important group of biological molecules that includes sugars and these?
What types of drugs affect the brain and influence how a person can feel, think, or act?
Chemical reactions always involve what?
An object undergoing circular motion experiences centripetal what?
What rocks are formed by crystallization of chemical precipitates?
In some plants, the sporophyte is diploid, while the gametophyte is what?
A lipid is one of a highly diverse group of compounds made up mostly of what?
During mitosis what is replicated in the primary spermatocyte?
What can carry nerve impulses from tissues and organs to the spinal cord and brain?
Chemical equations need to be balanced to satisfy the law of what?
Which species in class insecta has three body segments, six jointed legs, and multiple head appendages?
Whether it's puppies or people, offspring and parents usually share many of what?
Connected to agriculture, forestry, mining, and urbanization, what is the single biggest cause of extinction today?
The hexapoda subphylum includes mainly what type of animal?
What are living echinoderms divided into five of?
Gases on earth originated from comets and what events?
What season is it in the southern hemisphere when it's winter in the northern?
What is the name for areas where there is overlap between closely related species?
By what are skeletal muscles attached to bones?
What is the best-known geyser in the world that also faithfully erupts every 90 minutes?
What kind of energy constitutes the total kinetic energy of all the atoms that make up an object?
What is the name for birds that live on water like ducks?
Spores are generally produced through what type of reproduction?
What do we call the diffusion of water across a membrane because of a difference in concentration?
Scientific notation expresses a number as a what, times a power of 10?
How many valence electrons does a sodium atom have ?
Within an organism, the cells that give rise to the next generation are known as germ cells, while those that do not (that is, the cells that die when the organism dies) are known as what cells?
An external opening in the what of amphibians allows wastes and gametes to exit the body?
What kind of scientists measure percentages of sand, silt, and clay?
What hormone affects developent and maturation in animals?
The three types of mammals are characterized by their method of what?
What planet has the most volcanoes?
Gene duplications that are able to persist over many generations without causing too much harm to an organism or species can lead to what?
What keeps earth in orbit around the sun?
The work-energy theorem states that the net work on a system equals the change in what type of energy?
Living organisms release carbon dioxide into the atmosphere by what method?
Excretory organs that conserve what essential substance help terrestrial animals to avoid desiccation?
Venus rotates slowly in a direction opposite to the direction of what?
What is the ph of pure water?
The volume of a gas is comprised of about 10% matter. what is the rest?
Heterotrophs is another name for what group?
What is dna transcribed into after being replicated?
What is name of the phenomenon where similar traits evolve independently in species that do not share a common ancestry?
The flow of water through the sponge is unidirectional, driven by the beating of what?
What is the process for developing knowledge called?
Arteries, veins, and capillaries are the three main types of what?
Amphibians may attract mates with what?
What type of bounded nucleus do protists have?
Which body part is unsuitable for animals living on land?
Which inducer turns on the expression of the lac genes?
What is the most common type of brain injury?
Changing the shape of an elastic material gives it what type of energy?
What type of traits are features that are passed from one generation to the next called?
What is your body made up of?
Hemoglobin is responsible for transporting what within our blood?
How do bipedal creatures walk?
Any sample of matter that has the same physical and chemical properties throughout the sample is called what?
What is a measure of both speed and direction of motion?
What do fish eggs hatch to form?
Commensalism, mutualism, and parasitism are known as what type of relationships?
The modern model of the atom, which scientists call the quantum mechanical model, is based on what scientist's work on orbitals?
Time, mass, length, and temperature are considered to be what kinds of units?
What does the heat energy affect in the atmosphere?
What are the taste receptors found as tiny bumps on the tongue called?
What is the chemical formula for a glucose molecule?
In physics, the number of waves that pass a fixed point in a given amount time is referred to as what ?
The reactions between alkali metals and water are particularly vigorous and include the rapid production of large quantities of what gas?
Batteries produce voltage through what type of reaction?
The speed of a particle in what state is directly proportional to the temperature of the system?
Acne results from a blockage of sebaceous glands by what?
Just as millions of different words are spelled with our 26-letter english alphabet, millions of different proteins are made with the 20 common what?
Anaerobic respiration takes place without what?
Which other planet in the solar system is the easiest to observe from earth?
What is in the inside of your mouth and nose instead of skin?
While matter is recycled, ecosystems need a constant input of what?
What is term for the smallest particle of an element that still has the properties of said element?
What is the protein that carries iron that binds with oxygen in red blood cells?
What branch of science is based on the modern atomic theory, which states that all matter is composed of atoms?
Why do sharks sense low levels of electricity?
What membrane is populated by two types of photosystems that cooperate in the light reactions of photosynthesis?
At what point can nutrients enter or exit an ecosystem?
B cells and t cells are examples of what type of cells?
There are three different types of rna. all three types are needed to make what?
Niche and habitat are concepts related to what broader term?
What do opposite charges do to one another?
What is the name for the sinking of the dense, salty seawater in cold climates?
When gas particles heat up and gain energy, what do they do?
Ion pumps, the biological machines responsible for the selective transport of metal ions, are complex assemblies of what?
Lack of proper food over a period of time can lead to what condition, where the body is not getting enough nutrients to grow and stay healthy?
Two water molecules contain 4 hydrogen atoms and how many oxygen atoms?
The carrying angle is larger in females to accommodate their what?
Examples of organ systems in a human include the skeletal, nervous, and what?
Most hormones are controlled by what type of feedback, which causes the hormone to decrease its own production?
What is the stage called for babies that are in the first year of life after birth?
What forms a barrier between the cytoplasm and the environment outside the cell?
Over time, what changes solid rock into pieces?
Eukaryotic cells undergo what kinds of divisions that more primitive cells do not?
The orbicularis oris is a circular muscle that moves the lips, and the orbicularis oculi is a circular muscle that does what?
What may have developed to help our ancestors distinguish between ripe and unripe fruits?
Which stage is specialized for dispersal & reproduction?
What three parameters do seismographs measure?
What topographic feature does a circle with inward hatches represent on a contour map?
Which temperatures cause particles of reactants to have more energy?
Not all cells of a leaf carry out photosynthesis. cells within the middle layer of a leaf have chloroplasts, which contain the photosynthetic what?
What is the advantage of selecting for certain genetic traits for crops?
What is given off from plants and taken in by animals?
What is the simplest unit that has the fundamental chemical properties of an element?
Bacteria are what kind of cell?
What is the first stage of cellular respiration?
Who study volcanoes to be able to predict when a volcano will erupt?
What is the term for electric current that keeps reversing direction?
How many alleles comes from each parent?
How close a measurement is to the correct value for that measurement is known as what?
What pigment is required for photosynthesis to occur?
What begins approximately six weeks after fertilization in an embryo?
What do you call the energy that must be overcome in order for a chemical reaction to occur, or the minimum energy required to start a chemical reaction?
Frogs and toads, salamanders and newts, and caecilians are the three orders of what group of animals?
What are vesicles made of?
Deoxyribonucleic acid (dna) is nucleotide that stores what type of information?
What two basic types of feather does a bird have?
Which fuels provide most of the world’s energy?
The cathode and anode collectively are the electrodes of what?
What part of the sweet potato store sugar from photosynthesis as starch?
What is the ratio of charge on a capacitor to potential difference across it called?
What substances that primarily comprise plasma membranes form a bilayer?
What type of friction is friction that acts on objects when they are sliding over a surface?
Billions of what inside the human digestive tract help us digest food, make vitamins and play other important roles?
In a controlled scientific study, what do you call a factor that can take on different values?
What is a group of similar ecosystems with the same general abiotic factors and primary producers called?
Since 1900, four of the five earthquakes of the greatest magnitude occurred near what appropriately nicknamed pacific location?
All chemical changes involve a transfer of what?
What is the most common type of capillary?
What is the bending of waves around a corner called?
In what kind of bond does one atom contribute both of the electrons in the shared pair?
Mirrors and lenses are used in optical instruments to reflect and refract what?
The zygote undergoes many cell divisions before it implants in the lining of what?
What are carbonated beverages pressurized with?
Which principle states that two species cannot occupy the same niche in a habitat?
What happens to the rate of chemical reactions in higher temperatures?
An alternative to inclusive fitness is group selection, a type of what scenario where small groups of organisms of the same species are effectively acting as single (perhaps colonial) organisms?
The complement system is a series of proteins constitutively found in the what?
What are cations simply named after?
Inorganic chemistry refers to the study of materials *not* containing which element?
How many chambers does an amphibian heart have?
Electrons in the "outer shell" are also known as what kind of electrons?
What is created when energy turns a turbine?
Where in the periodic table of elements are the nonmetals located?
How many different main types of diabetes are there?
Where do most amphibians live, salt water or fresh water?
Foliation, which forms layers in rocks during metamorphism, is caused by what?
What type of compounds tend to have high melting points and boiling points?
What is the molten material deep within the earth?
Objects in motion that return to the same position after a fixed period of time are said to be in what type of motion?
What function of the car is affected by the pedal that controls the amount of gas the engine gets?
An atom that gains or loses electrons is called what?
What do you require to test a hypothesis?
The first law of thermodynamics deals with the total amount of energy in what?
What type of vehicles is able to go to the deepest ocean floor?
What is the turning effectiveness of a force?
What are the 3 orders of amphibians?
The sum of the pressures of the hydrogen and the water vapor is equal to what?
What is cellular respiration that proceeds in the presence of oxygen known as?
Blood enters the kidney through the which artery?
Besides increasing the potential, how else can you increase current in a circuit?
What kingdom in the domain eukarya that includes molds, mushrooms, and yeasts called?
An excellent solvent that holds heat well and allows hydrogen bonds, what substance has many properties critical to life?
Which part of the earth is made of the rigid, brittle, solid crust and uppermost mantle?
What is liquid water falling from the sky called?
The two general functions of roots in plants are to anchor and to do what else?
What do covalent bonds give atoms a more stable arrangement of?
What is the most important process for the survival of a species?
Which common element is the most found in living organisms?
What are the organelles on which proteins are made during protein synthesis called?
Chemistry is the study of matter and energy and how they what?
What is the term for the relationship in which one species benefits while the other species is harmed?
Transport vesicles move what type of molecules from the rough endoplasmic reticulum to the golgi apparatus?
Fish use some of their fins to propel themselves through the water and others to do what?
This series of life stages and events that a sexually reproducing organism goes through is called its what?
What are small gnawing mammals such as rats and mice called?
Dutch scientist christiaan huygens' principle of what states that every point on a wavefront is a source of wavelets that spread out in the forward direction at the speed of the wave itself?
Orbiting at a fairly typical 370 kilometers, the international space station is an example of what?
When plant type alternates from generation to generation what is this called?
Which type of diabetes involves the pancreas not secreting enough insulin, which causes high levels of glucose in the blood?
Halides of the transition metals become more covalent with increasing oxidation state and are more prone to what?
Dense connective tissue contains more collagen fibers than does loose connective tissue. as a consequence, it displays greater resistance to what?
What does pushing an object over the surface of a ramp cause?
Parasitism, mutualism, and commensalism are all examples of what type of biological relationship?
What  occurs when substances move from areas of lower to higher concentration or when very large molecules are transported?
What is the term for  how the air feels at its temperature and humidity
What form does formaldehyde take at room temperature?
Ions are formed when atoms gain or lose what?
What are the three ways to classify matter based on how light interacts with it?
In what area of the body are sutural bones found?
The ability of matter to combine chemically with other substances is known as?
Which types of waves are used for cell phones and radar?
Ticks spread bacteria that causes what condition?
Methyl groups are found within what?
The primary lymphoid organs are the bone marrow and what else?
Surface tension and viscosity are generally associated with what form or state of matter?
What catalyst substances may also allow reactions to occur by different pathways that have lower activation energy?
Gap genes are defined by the effect of what in that gene?
The abnormal cells cannot carry oxygen properly and can get stuck where?
All atoms of the same element share the same number of what type of particle?
How do oceans help control global warming?
What occurs between long warm climate periods?
Which state of matter is characterized by molecules with minimal movement and strong forces between them?
The plasma membrane pulls away from the cell wall as it shrivels. what is this process called?
What collects fluid from a system of canals in the cytoplasm?
What is the name of artificial barriers that people build to protect shorelines?
How many valence electrons does nitrogen have?
What is the term for a particle from outside the cell engulfing the cells membrane?
The kidney glomerulus filters blood mainly based on particle size to produce a filtrate lacking cells or large what?
What is the general composition of the continental crust?
What term refers to the conditions of the atmosphere from day to day?
Gases such as neon, argon, and krypton produce what using electroluminescence?
By how many weeks do all major organs start developing?
Surface tension is a property that can be found in what state of matter?
A plant that forms special tissues for storing water in an arid climate is an example of the plant evolving what?
What organ is made up of over one million nephrons that dot the renal cortex?
Human metabolism is the conversion of food into heat transfer, work, and this?
What organ do mammals have that is exceptionally large for their body size?
Mammals have four limbs and produce what kind of eggs?
Name the missing call of biochemical compound: carbohydrates, proteins, nucleic acids.
The ether functional group consists of an oxygen atom which forms single bonds with what other atoms?
In celsius, what is the boiling point of water?
What is the process where sperm from the pollen of one flower fertilizes the egg of another flower?
What is an organic compound made up of small molecules called amino acids called?
A solute generally does what to the freezing point of a solvent?
The quarks in a particle are confined, meaning individual quarks cannot be what?
The monosaccharide glucose is broken down through a series of enzyme-catalyzed reactions known as what?
What is the primary gas produced from burning of wood?
What type of transport requires no energy and occurs when substances move from areas of higher to lower concentration?
What is the force of attraction between a positive metal ion and valence electrons?
How many times does the height of the largest wave increase with each level?
What does unequal heating of the atmosphere cause?
Which vitamin is made in the skin when it is exposed to sunlight?
During protein synthesis, ribosomes assemble what into proteins?
If particles have enough kinetic energy to completely overcome the force of attraction between them, matter exists as a what?
Where is chlorine gas produced?
What is the study of energy and how it interacts with matter?
What structure of the body falls between cells and organs in complexity?
The relationships between groups of different species makes up a ___________.
An offspring that inherits a mutation in a gamete will have the mutation in all of its?
How do organisms grow and repair themselves?
What do halogens require electrons to achieve?
What is the percentage of earthquakes that take place within a plate, away from plate boundaries?
Despite their name, what scientists study the atmosphere rather than colliding space rocks?
What is an insect's hard outer exoskeleton made out of?
What illnesses are caused by damage to the alveoli of the lungs?
What do you call a group of organisms of the same species that live in the same area?
All the genes in all the members of a population make up its what?
Although some have suggested that the uvula is what type of organ, it actually serves an important purpose?
The differences in the biomes is due to differences in the what factors?
What increases the chances of someone inheriting a mitochondrial disease?
What is often the cause of phenotypic differences between identical twins?
What kind of equal and opposite forces cancel one another out when they act on the same object?
What are two other terms for dizygotic twins, which make good study subjects because they share many environmental conditions, but only about half of their polymorphisms?
Many diseases arise from genetic mutations that prevent the synthesis of critical what?
Pseudohypertrophic muscular dystrophy is an inherited disorder that causes gradual deterioration of what?
Plants obtain their energy from the sun through photosynthesis , what do animals obtain their energy from?
What type of fibrous joint is found between most bones of the skull?
Innate behaviors occur in all animals. however, they are less common in species with higher levels of what?
The periodic table is an arrangement of the elements in order of increasing what?
What type of ions play critical roles in light-dependent reactions?
What moves nitrogen back and forth between the atmosphere and organisms?
What is caused by human actions that releases chemical substances and particles into the air?
The human body has as many as two trillion lymphocytes, and lymphocytes make up about 25% of all of what?
What chemical substances are secreted by animals that communicate by odor or taste?
Hydropower is generated with what natural resource?
What are the three types of rocks?
How do yeasts reproduce asexually?
How many chromosomes are in each set?
Iron is oxidized to fe2+(aq) at an anodic site on the surface of the iron, which is often an impurity or this?
Each species has a characteristic number of what coiled structures made of dna and proteins?
What is the name for tiny animals that feed on phytoplankton?
What do marine autotrophs acquire in carbonic acid, its dissolved form?
Asexual, sexual, budding, and parthenogenesis are all forms of what?
For an exothermic chemical reaction, energy is given off as reactants are converted to what?
Which is the ultimate energy source in a bear's food chain?
Insect's antennae are useful for sensing what?
"endocrine" and "exocrine" are two types of what?
What is the term for the movement of molecules from an area of high concentration to an area of low concentration?
What factors determine the effect of a gene?
What type of craniates have backbones?
What are the most numerous blood cells?
How do autotrophs get food?
In boys, what hormone stimulates the growth of the larynx and thickening and lengthening of the vocal folds, which causes the voice to drop in pitch during puberty?
What is an ionic compound that produces negative hydroxide ions when dissolved in water
What is the name for the disease in which cells divide out of control?
The period immediately following the transmission of an impulse in a nerve or muscle, in which a neuron or muscle cell regains its ability to transmit another impulse, is called the ______ period.
What kinds of neutron stars emit radiation in pulses?
What is the change in behavior based on experience?
Competition with what emerging animal group may have led to extinction of cynodonts about 200 million years ago?
Within a bud, what is spaced close together because the internodes are very short?
What controls the opening to the airway and gut?
When there is no mass in a volume of space, the space is not what?
Cells selective for different odorants are interspersed in what anatomical cavity?
What has revolutionized human society over the past several decades?
What do you call the set of seventeen chemical elements possessing particular importance for a variety of industrial processes, used frequently in modern technology?
Broca’s area, responsible for the production of language or controlling movements responsible for speech, is nearly always located on what side of the brain?
Which theory is the idea that the characteristics of living organisms are controlled by genes, which are passed from parents to their offspring?
Phylum chordata consists of two subphyla of invertebrates, as well as the hagfishes and what else?
What forms when nitrogen and oxygen combine at high temperatures?
The posterior end of a typical rib is called what?
What is the name of the process in which solid food waste is passed out of the body?
The epidermis consists mainly of what type of cells?
What is the microtubule-organizing center found near the nuclei of animal cells?
Glucose and fructose are considered this type of sugar?
How many orders can flying birds be divided into?
Two types of interference found in waves are constructive and what else?
What is the name of the tube that carries sperm from the epididymis to the urethra?
What effect occurs when a population suddenly gets much smaller, due to natural disaster or other cause?
Matching donor and recipient blood types is important because different blood types have different types of what?
Heavily vegetated lands are less likely to experience what?
Unlike fibrous or cartilaginous joints, the articulating bone surfaces at what joint type are not directly connected to each other with fibrous connective tissue or cartilage?
What do you call the relationship in which members of one species consume members of another species?
In vertebrates, a system of what structures attached to the endoskeleton enables movement?
What does the central cell develop into after double fertilization?
What device is an electrochemical cell or series of cells that produces an electric current?
Where does digestion begin?
What kind of joints are capable of a wide range of movements, classified as gliding, angular, rotational, or special?
Hormones vary widely in molecular size and type as well as?
What kingdom of organisms constitutes up to 20 percent of all living things on earth in mass?
Scientists often classify or organize different objects based on their what?
The primary substance that human cells, and ultimately human beings, are made up of is what?
The genetic code is universal, unambiguous, and what else?
An electromagnetic wave begins with what movement by an electrically charged particle?
What are the sharp projections that specialized cells grow called?
What is formed when water vapor in the air condenses into tiny droplets?
The main components of the circulatory system are the heart, blood vessels, and what else?
From what do tubeworms found deep in the galapagos rift get their energy from?
What is water falling from the sky called?
Coal, oil and natural gas are types of what formed from the remains of once living organisms?
In a hot water heater, burning fuel causes the water to get hot because combustion is what type of reaction?
What is a force that opposes motion?
What is another term for a hand lens?
The anterior half of the foot is formed by the five what type of bones?
What adjective describes the movements that propel the feces during elimination?
What is transferred in an acid-base reaction
What is the largest planet in our solar system?
What does the ubiquitous generator use to generate currents?
What prevents soil erosion on a hillside that is being farmed?
What do the external female reproductive structures are collectively referred to?
What is another name for collar cells?
What involuntary muscle is found only in the heart?
Most sedimentary rocks form from what?
What system serves as the relay between the cns and the internal organs?
When pumping blood, the hearts of animals with very long necks must overcome what force?
The seasonal movements of animals from one area to another is referred to as?
Falling onto what joint can fracture the distal humerus?
What term is used to describe the energy reserve carbohydrate of animals?
What is used to measure current through a resistor?
When struck, how are the rigid crystals of ionic compounds likely to react?
What type of matter transmits light without scattering it?
What is the term for the unconscious movements controlled by the somatic nervous system?
What organism captures light energy and converts it to chemical energy inside its cell?
By applying salt to an icy road, the melting point of the ice is what?
How many pairs of chromosomes do human have ?
Where do polychaetes live?
What term describes a gene or sequence on a chromosome that co-segregates (shows genetic linkage) with a specific trait?
What type of blood vessels carry blood away from the heart?
How many millions of years ago did pangaea begin breaking apart?
Continental drift also promotes what speciation?
Which kind of mutations have the most dramatic effect on proteins?
When skunks are in danger what do they give off?
What kind of reproduction produces genetically identical organisms or clones?
Oceans help control global warming by absorbing what?
A phase diagram plots temperature and what else?
What kind of hormones are derived from cholesterol?
Eukaryotic cell division involves mitosis and what?
Why do sodium and chloride ions attract each other?
What layer of soil, essential for farming, has the highest proportion of organic material?
What are the organized instructions within dna for making proteins called?
Macrophages, which can swallow and destroy old and dying cells, bacteria, or viruses, are large types of what cells?
What is the distance between the nuclei of two identical atoms bonded together called?
What is the term for water that contains one or more dissolved substances?
Gall bladder removal surgery does not seriously affect digestion because ______ is still being produced.
The hepatitis virus attacks only cells of what organ?
A rusty bike has been left outside in damp weather too many times, so the iron in the metal parts have?
What two layers is the skin made of?
What are the three major types of blood vessels?
What is the name of the protective layer of gases that surrounds the earth and blocks harmful rays from the sun?
What are colonies of cells stuck to a surface called?
Trichomoniasis is cause by what type of pathogen?
An increase in what, across the periodic table, explains why elements go from metals to metalloids and then to nonmetals?
How many pairs of chromosomes are in the human genome?
What measure is resorted to by people who wish to screen out genetic abnormalities in the fetus?
Who built the first telescope?
Water can be boiled to kill giardia and most other what?
What do you call mixtures of ash and water that travel down river valleys?
Why do homonuclear diatomic molecules have zero dipole moment?
The types of white blood cells that arrive at an inflamed site depend on the nature of what?
In what season are temperature inversions more common?
Are thunderstorms more likely where the ground temperatures are extremely high or extremely low?
What type of diseases in humans are caused by protozoa?
Shark teeth likely evolved from the jagged scales that cover their skin, called what?
In the human ear, sound waves cause the stapes to press against what?
What is the term for proportion of amount of product actually produced in a chemical reaction versus predicted amount ?
What creates wet and dry zones at different latitudes?
What term is used to describe the total spread of values in a sample?
Fermentation—of grains to produce beer, and of fruits to produce wine—is an ancient art that humans in most cultures have practiced for how long?
In which direction does water travel?
The largest population size that can be supported in an area without harming the environment is referred to as what?
What are the smallest particles of elements that maintain their unique properties?
Where does the christmas tree worm live?
What are biomes that occur where a river, a source of fresh water, meets the ocean called?
What continuously monitors and repairs its genetic material?
What are the large segments of the earth’s crust that ordinarily move very slowly?
Which process causes rocks at the earth's surface to change form?
Chemical reactions always involve energy. when methane burns, for example, it releases energy in the form of what?
Alzheimers disease is associated with memory loss in what group of people?
What global cycle takes place on, above, and below earth’s surface?
Why are two different minerals considered different though they have the same chemical composition?
What type of mapping is critical for identifying  the location of genes that cause genetic diseases?
When menstrual periods become less frequent and finally cease; this is called?
What blood protein carries oxygen from the lungs to cells throughout the body?
What is the most abundant element in the universe?
The product of a system’s mass multiplied by its velocity is called what?
In response to changing environmental conditions, prokaryotic populations can undergo what process in short periods of time?
What term means the time in which half of the original number of radioactive nuclei in a sample decay?
What is a shortage of water that causes the soil to dry from the surface down called?
What are are segmented invertebrates in phylum annelida called?
What is the connection between the two hemispheres of the brain called?
Banging on a drum is an example of which type of energy?
What do microbes use to make food?
Space telescopes avoid such problems completely since they orbit outside the what?
Tendons connecting the scapula to the humerus form what, which is the circle of tendons around the shoulder joint?
The number of particles of a substance in a given volume is known as?
Potential differences from various voltage sources are necessary in order to create electrical fields, which result in what flow of charge?
What effect is caused by air moving over the earth's surface as it spins?
The separation of compounds on the basis of their solubilities in a given solvent is known as what?
What is the process by which wind blows to make the  ground surface gets lower and rockier ?
Because trees add water vapor to air, cutting down forests leads to longer periods of what?
Some sea anemones establish what kind of relationship with hermit crabs by attaching to the crab’s shell?
Prokaryotic cells do not have a nucleus but instead generally have a single chromosome, a piece of double-stranded dna located in an area of the cell called the what?
What measures a fluid’s resistance to flow?
What happens to the wire in a fuse if it's current rating is exceed?
Polar climates include polar and which other kind of tundra?
What disease is given as an example of a sex-linked trait?
What type of feeders are earthworms?
What part of the plant is the main site of photosynthesis?
Aluminosilicates are formed by replacing some of the si atoms in silicates by which atoms?
In a smoke detector, a battery in the electric circuit creates what between the metal plates?
Photochemical smog consists mainly of what?
What lizards can change colors based on the color of their surroundings?
Lipids are organic compounds that consist of carbon, hydrogen, and?
What do you call the force a machine applies to an object?
In scientific terms, average acceleration is the rate at which what changes?
Some atoms are more stable when they gain or lose an electron and form what?
Like a blanket on a sleeping person, greenhouse gases act as what for the planet?
What is the process in which a solid changes directly to a gas without going through the liquid state called?
How many forces do objects on earth have acting on them at all times?
How often does sperm develop in humans?
Scientists found that the youngest rocks on the seafloor were where?
The reproductive tissues of male and female humans develop similarly in utero until a low level of the hormone testosterone is released from male what?
Flatworms have a concentration of nerve tissue in the head end, which was a major step in the evolution of what organ?
What type of energy travels through matter in wave form?
What speeds up chemical reactions inside cells?
What atmosphere do gills help exchange gas in?
Community interactions are important factors in what?
The end of a pine tree branch bears the male cones that produce what?
One seismogram indicates the distance to the what?
What is the process of creating complementary strands of mrna called?
In ancient egypt gold mines were the property of what?
The arid environment of a desert, for instance, can quickly deplete an animal of what?
What type of chemistry is the study of chemicals containing carbon called?
What is the muscular organ shaped like an upside-down pear that has a thick lining of tissues called the endometrium?
What includes all the biotic and abiotic factors in an area and how they interact?
What is used for cooling detectors of infrared telescopes?
What do we call something that pushes or pulls on an object?
Velocity is a vector that has both direction and what?
What are the two classifications for organisms living in water?
Where are hotspot volcanoes commonly found?
The muscles of the anterior compartment of the lower leg are generally responsible for dorsiflexion, and the muscles of the posterior compartment of the lower leg are generally responsible for this?
The presence of what, which acts as a trigger, affects the rate of chemical reaction?
What do you call the splitting of the nucleus of an atom into two smaller nuclei?
What method is used to map the earth on flat paper?
Water molds mostly live in water or moist?
What is the act of noting or detecting phenomenon through the senses
What two measurements are multiplied to find the area of a rectangle?
What is the term for biologically meaningful dna sequences?
Which common type of diabetes is also known as noninsulin-dependent or adult-onset diabetes?
Recognition of pathogens is a function of what type of response?
Typically done to find food or mates, what do you call the regular movement of individuals or populations each year during certain seasons?
What is the vaccine to prevent infection of hpv?
Mineral crystals that form when magma cools are usually _______ than crystals that form when lava cools.
What element makes up the majority of coal?
What do you call a simple machine consisting of a sloping surface that connects lower and higher elevations?
What can be combined with an amine to form an amide?
There are about 50,000 vertebrate species, and they are placed in how many different classes?
In which kind of species do open circulatory systems serve additional functions?
Boyle’s law applies to matter which is in what state?
What do we call heated groundwater that erupts from the ground under pressure?
Sensory organs that respond to particular sensory stimuli contain cells called what?
How can we reduce use of energy resources?
About 50% of all animal species died off between the mesozoic and which other era?
Transforming from a caterpillar to a butterfly requires a lot of what?
What two cycles make up the female reproductive cycle?
Uranium is an example of a non-renewable resource used to produce what type of power?
One of the early signs of cell disease is this "leaking" of what into the body cells?
What does the moving piston in an engine turn?
What type of chloride is a non-volatile material, but does not dissolve in water?
In general, objects expand in all directions as temperature does what?
Paddles and hammers are examples of simple machines that increase the distance over which force is applied, while reducing what?
What two things collide to cause gas pressure?
Every human cell has the same what, and each cell has thousands of them?
What are a class of tetrapod vertebrates that produce amniotic eggs called?
What characteristic of reptile eggs allows them to be laid on land instead of in water?
What part of the rainforest commonly has ferns and other ground plants?
The primary function of insulin is to facilitate the uptake of what into body cells?
Spindle fibers form between the centrioles during prophase i of what process?
How many quarks are in each proton and neutron?
What is the year cycle that sunspots occur?
When an unstable nucleus emits radiation and is transformed into the nucleus of other elements this is called?
What is manufactured and added to foods to preserve freshness?
Scientists think that stars and galaxies make up only a small part of the matter in the universe. what is the rest of the matter called?
Why are noninfectious diseases not contagious?
Organisms that "love" acids are known as what?
Which enzyme is used in step three of the polymerase chain reaction because of it's ability to withstand high temperatures?
What do scientists use to study the deep without going to the seafloor?
The hemisphere that is tilted away from the sun is cooler because it receives less what?
Like the strings of cello, anything that vibrates produces waves of what?
The point in the titration at which an indicator changes color is called what?
On a hot, dry day, plants close their stomata to conserve what?
What do you call the system of glands that release chemical messenger molecules into the bloodstream?
Reactant concentrations are highest at which part of a reaction?
What happens to the temperature of a system during phase change?
What is the major cause of outdoor air pollution?
Why does a metal spoon heat up quickly when placed in a hot drink?
What does the megaspore mother cell produce after meiosis division?
Synaptic connections can change over time depending on what?
What is the body of a roundworm covered with?
The end of the phospholipid molecule that is polar and attracts water is called what?
What is known as the universal solvent?
Any organism that causes disease is called what?
Electric generators change kinetic energy to what type of energy?
Brown algae are important commodities for what?
What does the large central vacuole do?
What is the ratio of solutes in a solution to a volume of solvent in a solution known as?
What type of rock contains concentrations of valuable minerals?
How many digits do primates have on each extremity?
Dna is normally found within what region of a cell?
Water and carbon dioxide molecules are reactants in what plant process?
Gene therapy is a type of what kind of engineering?
What is mass number?
What rises through solid rocks where conditions are right?
What is the connecting piece of a sperm packed with?
What is a diagram that shows a single way that energy flows throughout an ecosystem?
Different colors of light differ in terms of which important attribute?
Ion drives have low thrust but high what?
For most waves, energy is proportional to what, a term that describes the height of the wave?
What are the primary causes of bone fractures?
Water is polar and has electrically charged ends, so it is attracted to the oppositely charged end of a phospholipid molecule, which is described by what term meaning "water-loving"?
What is produced when a base is dissolved in water?
What do mammals conserve heat with?
What is a mutation that changes all or much of a particular chromosome?
Defined as a difference in electric potential energy, a source of what is required in order to produce an electrical current?
What hydrocarbons contain only single bonds between carbon atoms?
What is a decrease in the magnitude of the membrane potential?
Water pollution occurs when chemicals, sewage, trash, or heat enter what?
Radioisotopes may vary greatly in their rate of decay, decaying faster if their nuclei are more what?
Where can composite volcanoes most frequently be found?
The digestive, excretory, and reproductive systems of amphibians share a body cavity called what?
Vertebrates are a subphylum of what phylum?
What is the latin name for mercury?
The brain is said to contain gray matter, while what related structure contains white matter separated into columns?
What type of behavior occurs naturally in all animals of a given species?
What orbits an atoms' nucleus?
What are the three forms of water as found in nature?
What type of digestion is chewing an example of?
How many major massive extinctions have been since life began on earth?
What tool do scientist's use to show the evolutionary pathways and connections among organisms?
What kind of bonds are there between carbon atoms in saturated fatty acids?
In winter, water does what, becoming solid and causing hoses to rupture and engine blocks to crack?
Unlike archaea and eukaryotes, bacteria have a cell wall made of what?
What happens to the crust if the moving oceanic crust reaches a deep sea trench?
Polygenic traits are controlled by more than one of these?
What system plays a critical role in the regulation of vascular homeostasis?
How many nonpolar bonds does an oxygen molecule have?
What type of disease occurs when the immune system fails to recognize the body's own molecules?
What organism is an important pioneer on cleared rock and soil surfaces, such as volcanic flows and burned forests?
What hypothetical link between development of herbivores and plant defenses is observed in nature, for instance in seeds that are unsavory to animals?
The term salt can refer to essentially any of what compounds?
Where is the hypothalamus–pituitary complex located in the body?
Where is the guinea worm a serious problem?
The reaction of calcium oxide with carbon dioxide forms what?
Cilia or flagella structures give protists what ability?
What is characterized by uncontrolled cell division of abnormal cells?
Our global ecological footprint depends on resource use per person and what population factor?
What do all sound waves begin with?
Animal starch, called glycogen, is stored in the liver and where else?
Kepler's laws relate to the motion of what?
Colloids are used industrially as what?
What is defined as the temperature plus precipitation of an area over a long period of time?
What manages the material and energy resources of the cell?
What is the midpiece of sperm packed with?
Dry soils are relatively unproductive because plants need a sufficient quantity of liquid water to carry out what process?
The vitamins and minerals contained in all of the food we consume are important for all of our organ systems. however, there are certain nutrients that affect this?
What type of plants supplement their mineral nutrition by digesting animals?
Daughter cells divide by what?
Phytochromes regulate many plant responses to what?
Carbon dioxide molecules consist of a central carbon atom bonded to how many oxygen atoms?
Survivorship curves show the distribution of individuals in a population according to what metric?
Electrons are not shared equally between the two atoms in which type of covalent bonds?
What is above each leaf scar?
Ultimately, the fluid that is lost from the blood vessels is returned through what system?
What type energy sources emit fewer or no greenhouse gases?
Stars spend most of their lives on the main sequence, fusing hydrogen into what?
What is a measure of how hot or cold the air is?
Where are more of an insect's internal organs kept?
What is the measure of kinetic energy of the particles in matter?
What is the name for the tiny air sacs at the end of bronchioles?
What is the source of most of the energy used?
What flows across the membrane resulting in changes in the membrane potential?
The standard reduction potential can be determined by subtracting the standard reduction potential for the reaction occurring at the anode from the standard reduction potential for the reaction occurring at this?
What are proteins made up of?
What proteins synthesized in cells act as catalysts?
What element is the sun mostly made up of?
What shape is the gametophyte in ferns?
What makes sunsets appear red?
Skeletal and muscular are examples of what type of system?
What is the process where light bounces back from surfaces that it cannot pass through?
What are butterflies and bees an example of?
What are clouds that form on the ground called?
What is formed when atoms of different elements bond together?
Where a cell resides, how it appears, and what it does define its what?
What can be defined simply, as a change in position?
What are mars' moons thought to be?
What is the main greenhouse gas causing global warming?
A goiter is a visible indication of deficiency of what?
Pale skin and reduced eyes in salamanders that live in dark caves are an example of what?
Kidney stones are considered a disease that affects which system?
The concentration of hydrogen ions in a solution is called?
Within a group, the ionization energy decreases as the size of the atom gets what?
Temperature can affect what attribute of a siamese cat's coat?
What type of locomotion do humans have?
Which equation improves upon the ideal gas law by adding two terms: one to account for the volume of the gas molecules and another for the attractive forces between them?
What do chemical reactions  need to be activated?
Compared to thoracic and lumbar types, the cervical type of what structures carry the least amount of body weight?
Many plants generate root pressure during which phase?
The fuel rods are made of a corrosion-resistant alloy that encases the partially enriched uranium fuel; controlled fission of 235u in the fuel produces heat. water surrounds the fuel rods and moderates this?
Earthquake waves that travel trhough underground rocks in all directions are known as?
What is the final product of the calvin cycle?
What does an electric conductor cross to generate current?
Splitting the nucleus of an atom produces a massive amount of what type of energy?
What are waves that pass a fixed point in a given amount of time called?
As temperature increases, the solubility of the majority of solid substances does what?
The process in which animals use visual cues to communicate is known as what?
What state is achieved when the forward and reverse reactions proceed at equal rates?
What are 3 types of light?
What is an interation between organisms or species for the same resources in an enviroment is called?
What type of organism, including sea stars and sand dollars, is named for their spiny skin?
What is the term for a disease that is not contagious?
Red bone marrow, tonsils, spleen, and thymus gland are considered organs of what system?
What is it called when you touch a charged object to the earth?
What is the basic unit of structure and function of living things?
What are the three types of symbiotic relationships?
What is the name of the major components of cell membranes called?
What organ breaks down excess amino acids and toxins in the blood?
What do wavelengths measure the size of?
Lava flows from a volcano and hardens into what?
What is the term for coiled structures made of dna and proteins?
Archaeans produce what kind of gas as a waste product?
The mole fraction of the solvent is just one minus the mole fraction of what?
Electromagnetic specturm is the full spectrum of raidant energy, which is energy emitted and transmitted as what?
What structures formed of twisted actin chains are found in almost every cell, and are numerous in muscle cells and cells that move by changing shape?
What impact can plaque in an artery have on the flow of blood?
What type of charge do electrons have?
Which cells change the accessibility, transcription, or translation of a gene?
In eukaryotes, the cell cycle consists of a long preparatory period, called __________ before undergoing cell division.
Some biochemical processes happen via sequences of reactions which are called what?
Deep ocean currents are caused by differences in what property at the top and bottom?
What forms when a glacier scrapes a large hole in the ground?
What is needed to provide cells with the oxygen they need for cellular respiration?
When magma cools slowly, what texture does it have?
The calvin cycle is the fancy name for the metabolic pathway that builds what?
The use of mercury-based dental amalgam has gone under question in recent years because of concerns regarding what?
Where does much of the blood that enters the atria flow?
Batteries produce voltage through what type of reaction?
A globe is the best way to make a map of what?
Bond energy is an indication of the amount of energy needed for what to occur?
What causes genetic disorders?
Located above the stratosphere, what layer is the place where meteors burn up?
What composition determines both eruption type and volcano type?
In a pedigree what shape symbolizes males?
Mollusks are probably most closely related to organisms in the phylum annelida , also known as what?
Which bonds are the strongest of the intermolecular forces?
The community of all of the living and nonliving parts of an environment is known as what?
What is the most common type of volcano?
What is the name of the the most efficient possible engine?
Carbon monoxide, radon gas, dust and pet dander are sources of what kind of pollution?
What is the cause of existence of molecular solids and liquids?
Meningitis, for example, is caused by a viral or bacterial infection of the tissues covering what?
What doctors specialize in diseases stemming from glandular issues?
_________ are one-celled organisms with a nucleus which cause diseases such as malaria.
Chemical energy is another form of which energy?
Many species secrete a hard external skeleton of what?
What is the most common pattern of dispersion?
Water droplets form when the air reaches 100-percent what?
Any large molecule is referred to as what?
The rocks that are taken from a mine are full of valuable minerals plus rock that isn't valuable. what is this rock called?
Organisms such as goldfish that can tolerate only a relatively narrow range of salinity are referred to as what?
In a liquid, the particles are still in close contact, so liquids have a definite what?
What is the transfer of thermal energy between particles of matter that are touching called?
Regularly performing weight-bearing exercise can reduce the risk of what condition that affects bones?
What do we call structures that have lost their use through evolution, which serve as important evidence of evolution?
What is the only way of transferring energy that doesn't require matter?
The layers of the atmosphere correspond with what changes with altitude?
What do you call a type of mixture that has the same composition throughout?
What traits do the sponge and tarantula share?
Organisms are highly organized, coordinated structures that consist of one or more what?
What do voltmeters measure?
What is the term for body parts that do not serve their original function?
The soil beneath a deciduous forest is called what?
What is composed of a calcium cation and a nitrate anion?
Not all structural rearrangements of chromosomes produce nonviable, impaired, or infertile individuals. in rare instances, such a change can result in the evolution of what?
Which molecules in the body holds energy?
What term is used for the difference in the placement of an object from one time to another?
What kind of reasoning involves formulating generalizations inferred from careful observation and the analysis of a large amount of data?
What kind of eruption do scientists think is caused by a very large magma chamber erupting entirely in one catastrophic explosion?
The inside surface of the jejunum is covered with tiny projections called what?
What is the most effective color in interrupting the nighttime portion of the photoperiod?
What glands produce the salty fluid that helps cool the body of many mammals?
What shape is the orbit of a planet?
What term is defined as the area where a species lives and to which it has become adapted?
What do fish have that allow them to “breathe” oxygen in water?
The process in which materials move depending on their heat relative to nearby materials is known as what?
What shape is each face of a tetrahedron?
Glands release what substance into the blood?
What's the process responsible for the presence of oxygen in our atmosphere?
A rise in blood glucose levels triggers the pancreatic release of what hormone?
What do most ecosystems get energy from?
What is the study of viruses called?
What do you call an animal that feeds on other animals?
Most scientists think that ordinary matter is less than half of the total matter in the universe; the remaining part includes what mysterious entity?
What is the term for gases that absorb heat in the atmosphere?
What is the type of cell division that produces gametes called?
What causes halide minerals to form?
Upon reaching the postsynaptic membrane, what type of chemical messenger binds to and activates a specific receptor?
What do heterotrophic animals usually consume?
Molecules of gas are rare in what outermost region of the planet's atmosphere?
Why is there very little evaporation in the boreal forests?
Maltose, lactose, and sucrose are common types of what, which are distinguished by their monosaccharide constituents?
Amplitude describes what about the wave's crest and trough?
Overproduction of offspring, combined with limited resources, results in what?
What laws regulate radiation doses to which people can be exposed?
Digestive enzymes, including which enzyme, start breaking down starches into sugars?
In prokaryotes, what is composed of a single, double-stranded dna molecule in the form of a loop or circle?
What is formed when nitrogen and sulfur oxides dissolve in rain?
Hydroelectric power harnesses the energy of what?
Hydras and sea anemones are examples of what form?
Tropical, temperate, continental, and polar are all examples of what?
What is a longitudinal, flexible rod located between the digestive tube and the nerve cord?
At high altitudes, acclimatization increases red blood cells, so there is more what to help transport the available oxygen?
What type of systemic response involves lymphocytes?
What was the first object to form in the solar system?
Some materials have negative heats of solution; the dissolution of one of these solutes in water is called?
Where are most white blood cells made?
Blood flows from the right atrium to the right ventricle, where it is pumped into the what?
What are the male gametes called?
What in hemoglobin gives red blood cells their red color?
Alpha, beta and gamma are three types of what?
Red-green colorblindness is an example of what kind of trait?
What kind of radiation is greatest at the equator and lessens toward the poles?
What are atoms or groups of atoms called which carry and electrical charge?
What are the salts of fatty acids called?
What type of numbers specify the arrangement of electrons in orbitals?
What do atoms become if they lose or gain electrons?
What is the breakdown of unstable elements into stable elements called?
Observations suggest that a force applied to an object is always applied by what?
How much exercise should a person ideally get during a single day?
The electrolysis of what substance produces hydrogen and oxygen gases
What is the shorter loop of the cardiovascular system?
What is the first classification of igneous rocks?
What is the very slow movement of rock and soil down a hillside?
Which type of pressure forces fluid out of the capillary?
What hits the eardrum and causes it to vibrate?
What type of ecologists work to identify and manipulate the processes that most limit recovery of ecosystems from disturbances?
Name the two types of nucleic acids.
Interactions between plants and other organisms result in cycling of chemical nutrients within what?
In places where crops grow only during part of the year, the land may be bare for a few?
What does bowman's capsule form by surrounding the glomerulus?
What do scientists use to help explain objects or systems in simpler ways?
Burning trees produces most of the same pollutants as burning what?
During which process in bacteria do the chromosome replicates and the two daughter chromosomes actively move apart?
What is emitted by atoms that have been excited by thermal excitation, electron collision, or collisions with photons of exactly the right frequency?
Translation is the process of ordering the amino acids in the assembly of a?
What is the name of the group that rats are apart of called?
Fertilization occurs when what material from one flower reaches the female gametes in the same or a different flower?
What are the tiny packets of energy the sun gives off called?
In humans, each set of chromosomes contains 22 of these and 1 sex chromosome?
What eukaryotic organisms cannot make their own food and do not technically eat?
What do ants and termites eat to help them digest wood and leaves?
How many types of glands does the dermis contain?
What is an upward force that fluids exert on any object that is placed in them?
Atmospheric pressure is increased, causing a greater amount of oxygen than normal to diffuse into the bloodstream of the patient, in what type of therapy?
An axe head and a doorstop are types of what simple machine?
Dna encodes instructions for what kind of molecules?
Who coined the term natural selection?
When sand is deposited along a shoreline, what is created?
Prosimians are thought to be more similar to the earliest of these?
What arteries carry oxygen-poor blood away from the heart to the lungs?
What are the mass of threadlike filaments on the body of a fungus called?
Ionic bonds between two atoms require one metal and one what?
The pressurized gas of earth's atmosphere is contained by what force?
Cytokinins promote cell division and prevent what?
Dna transcription is controlled by what type of proteins?
Tubeworms deep in the galapagos rift get their energy from what type of bacteria?
When female mammalian embryos consist of just a few thousand cells, one x chromosome in each cell inactivates by condensing into a structure called what?
Oceans are divided into zones bases on distance from shore and what other factor?
If a mistake is made by dna polymerase while adding nucleotides, incorrect bases are removed and replaced by the correct base, and the process of what continues?
The common earthworm and leeches are examples of what type of worm?
Elements involved in nuclear reactions are what?
Circadian rhythms and migration are examples of what kind of behaviors in animals?
The articular cartilage is thickest in the upper and back part of the acetabulum, the socket portion of what?
What are decomposers that feed on the organic matter left over from other decomposers?
Heavier isotopes of plutonium are also produced when lighter plutonium nuclei capture what?
What parts of the cell does cell differentiation involve changes in?
The head, thorax, and abdomen comprise what type of body structure, possessed by arthropods?
The renal hilum is the entry and exit site for structures servicing which organs?
Photosynthesis changes light energy to what type of energy?
Fructose and lactose are types of sugars broken down by the body to form what, which is the simplest sugar of all?
A complementary pair of chromosomes have genes for the same characteristics in the same location on the chromosome are known as?
What dangerous oxygen compound is found in ground level smog?
Large increases in the diversity of life have resulted from adaptive radiations that followed what?
What is the source of most electricity?
What kind of motion characterizes waves?
Light reactions occur during which stage of photosynthesis?
What is used to measure, in degrees, the distance north or south of the equater?
Radiation can be absorbed or shielded by materials, particularly what material used to make protective aprons worn by x-ray administrators?
What is the name for something that consists of all the population in a given area together with the nonliving environment?
The amniotic egg first evolved in what species?
A largemouth bass is an example of a cold-blooded animal that conforms to what aspect of the lake it inhabits?
What makes up the mass number of an atom?
Clubmosses are not true mosses, though, because they have what?
Europa and titan are names of what kind of celestial objects?
What develops in depressions where water flow is low or nonexistent?
All prokaryotic and some eukaryotic organisms reproduce through what method, where a parent passes all of its genetic material to the next generation?
Where does photosynthesis occur in plants?
What is defined as force per unit area?
What word describes a change in behavior that occurs as a result of experience?
What term means the abnormal or excessive extension of a joint - particularly a hinged joint - beyond its normal range of motion, thus resulting in injury?
Burning of methane is a type of what, which involves the breaking and forming of bonds?
Transparent, translucent, or opaque are properties of matter based on an interaction with what?
Hydrogen sulfide is a noxious and toxic gas produced from decaying organic matter that contains what?
What is the name of the body system that fights to protect the body from specific pathogens?
Incomplete dominance and epistasis are both terms that define what?
What branch of biology focuses on heredity?
The axon contains microtubules and neurofilaments that are bounded by a plasma membrane known as what?
What is the process by which a liquid changes to a solid?
How are electrons shared in covalent bonds?
What is the most electron-pair bonds a nitrogen atom can participate in?
The hypothalamus and pituitary gland are located near the base of this organ?
What is the most common type of cancer in adult males?
Distance traveled divided by time is equal to what?
What are people called that choose to study science?
What is the main cause of outdoor air pollution?
What is the term for organisms that can maintain a stable body temperature even in the face of large fluctuations in the environmental temperature?
What is the term for learning by watching and copying the behavior of someone else?
What do we call scientists who study and forecast the weather?
What are atoms called when they have the same number of negative electrons as positive protons in an electrical charge?
Neon, krypton and argon are examples of what kind of gases, which produce light by electroluminescence?
What might arthropods use as legs for walking?
What kind of bonds, where electrons are transferred rather than shared, are considered the ultimate in polarity?
What happens when chemical bonds in a burning log break?
When what common element forms single bonds with other atoms, the shape is tetrahedral, and when its atoms form a double bond, the shape is planar?
What objects are made from highly reflective metal that is applied to a curved or flat piece of glass?
Fractures, osteoarthritis, and rickets are problems of which body system?
The structure of a neuron allows it to rapidly transmit nerve impulses to other what?
Earthquakes have both longitudinal and transverse components, and these travel at what?
What do we call the theory of electromagnetism on the particle scale?
What part of the continuous dermal tissue system covers stems?
What may be the ancestor of placental mammals?
What are the two methods of logical thinking?
What is the amount of solute that can dissolve in a given amount of solvent at a given temperature?
What should a pregnant woman avoid while pregnant?
Quantities have two parts: the number (how many) and what else?
What organ provides the integrative power that underlies the complex behavior of vertebrates?
What is the only mechanism that consistently causes adaptive evolution?
What are four children born at one birth called?
What does liquid change to due to vaporization?
Converging plates can be oceanic, continental, or one of each. if at least one is oceanic, it will subduct. a subducting plate creates what?
Reptiles can be found on every continent except which one?
For photosynthesis to begin, the inputs required are sunlight, water, and what?
When a stalactite and stalagmite join together, they form a what?
What color does red litmus paper turn in the presence of a base?
What is the term for the hard, round object produced within the mantle of a living shelled mollusk?
What is the term for animal-like protists that are usually single-celled?
The cell membrane consists of two adjacent layers of what?
Echinoderms have a unique system for gas exchange, nutrient circulation, and locomotion called the water vascular system. the system consists of a central ring canal and radial canals extending along each arm. water circulates through these structures allowing for gas, nutrient, and this?
What group includes the simplest eukaryotes, including most single-celled eukaryotes?
Tropical rainforest, chaparral, and taiga are what kind of biomes?
One of the most advanced uses of what in medicine is the positron emission tomography scanner, which detects the activity in the body of a very small injection of radioactive glucose?
What type of disease is muscular dystrophy?
How many types of tissue are found in animals?
The sequence of bases in a gene translates to the sequence of what protein components?
Two or more what may bond with each other to form a molecule?
Like animals, protozoa are heterotrophic and capable of what?
What term is used to describe a solute that is water fearing?
What is the term for animals that  cannot raise their body temperature on their own?
Kidney stones can form anywhere in what system?
What organ participates in all digestive activities except ingestion and defecation?
What is calculated by adding together the atomic masses of the elements in the substance, each multiplied by its subscript (written or implied) in the molecular formula?
What term describes precipitation that flows over the surface of the land?
At what point is water on the ph scale?
Would you find cells that contain a cell wall, a large central vacuole, and plastids in plant or animal cells?
What system includes lymph organs, lymph vessels, lymph, and lymph nodes?
What causes acid rain?
What helps ensure that, at least, some species will survive environmental change?
The airway and the lungs are part of what organ system?
Air quality is a measure of what in the air?
Which factor often changes a protein from an inactive form to an active form?
After the film is developed, any unexposed silver bromide must be removed by a process called what?
What force provides resistance whenever two surfaces are in contact?
What cycle is frequency measured in per second?
What are the two types of cells?
In science, what do you call something that always applies under the same conditions?
The pine tree is the sporophyte; its sporangia are located on scalelike structures packed densely where?
Prokaryotic cells grow to a certain size and then they divide by which process?
What can increase the occurance of earthquakes?
What term is used to describe organelles that are found only in animal cells?
What is located at the center of our solar system?
What is the leading cause of death worldwide?
Changes in the color of the statue of liberty owe to oxidation-reduction reactions, or what simpler term?
What is the top layer of water farther from shore called?
Flatworms reproduce sexually. in most species, the same individuals produce both what?
The cytoplasm is all the contents of the cell inside the cell membrane, with the exception of what?
What is the study of forces in equilibrium?
What body joint incurs the most common overuse injury among runners and other athletes?
Who is called the father of genetics?
Each endocrine hormone affects only certain "target" cells, which have molecules of what on the surface that enable binding of a given hormone?
What do we call the scientific study of heredity and hereditary variation?
What do you call any substance in food that the body needs?
What type of waves start when a source of energy causes a disturbance in the medium?
What term describes the process where organisms convert atmospheric nitrogen into biologically useful chemicals?
As per the kinetic-molecular theory, in what direction do the molecules and ions of liquids move?
Cephalization refers to the development of what anatomical region, which evolved at the same time as bilateral symmetry in animals?
What term describes a region of space around an atom that has a non-zero probability for an electron with a particular energy?
How do the male gorillas show display behaviors?
A genetic molecule is called dna, which stands for this?
Is sleep an active or inactive state in the brain?
What is is a measurement of the force amplification of a machine?
What branch of science is the study of the solid earth?
What is harmless water vapor, for a powerplant?
What regulates the passage of blood into capillary beds?
What do you call the symbiotic relationship where a parasite benefits while the host is harmed?
What length of time is human gestation commonly divided into?
What substance, involved in most biochemical reactions, is essential to life?
What type of tissue covers the outside of a plant?
Metamorphic rocks form when an existing rock is changed by heat or what?
What anatomical structure serves as the conduit of the oocyte from the ovary to the uterus?
What cell structures are like storage centers and tend to be larger in plant cells?
Oscillations in the transcription of certain genes are at the heart of the molecular mechanisms underlying what biological rhythms?
Give an example of a ball-and-socket joint, which has the greatest range of motion, allowing movement in several directions.
Difference in electric potential energy are measured in what basic unit?
How many stars are in our solar system?
Landslides and mudslides are the most destructive types of what geologic phenomenon?
What scientific word, which gives its name to a type of rock, means "to change form"?
The sporophyte phase is the longest phase in the life of what?
Hair color and skin color are known as what?
Amines are classified according to the number of carbon atoms bonded directly to what atom?
Because core electrons are closer to the nucleus, they are not involved in what?
The upper portion of the septum is formed by the perpendicular plate of which bone?
Cells in green algae divide along cell plates called what?
What are saprobes that decompose organic matter?
Because complex plant carbohydrates such as cellulose are more difficult to digest, what animal diet is associated with a complicated digestive system?
What are all cells surrounded by?
The leaves of all of what type of plants have two basic parts in common: the blade and petiole?
Through what do plants move enormous amounts of water from the soil to the atmosphere?
What explains why two different species cannot occupy the same niche in the same place for very long?
The cytoplasm of prokaryotic cells has a high concentration of dissolved solutes. therefore, the osmotic pressure within the cell is what?
What are the ultimate source of genetic variation?
The electron beam scans the surface of the sample, usually coated with a thin film of which metal?
In a longitudinal wave, what term is a measure of how compressed particles of the medium become when the wave passes through?
All cells have certain parts in common. these parts include the cell membrane, cytoplasm, dna, and what?
Competition within a species is called what?
What occurs when rain falls more quickly than water can be absorbed into the ground or carried away by rivers or streams?
What are the building blocks of dna?
Each line in a structural formula represents a pair of shared what?
What do vertebrate chordates possess that invertebrate chordates do not?
In vascular plants, what two basic structures are made of dermal, vascular, and ground tissues?
What is the process resulting in living things with beneficial traits producing more offspring?
Solar cells create voltages directly from light, while thermoelectric devices create voltage from differences in what?
What theory goes beyond classical mechanics to describe the behavior of near-light-speed objects?
What type of structure between the esophagus and the stomach normally opens only when a bolus arrives?
Viroids are plant pathogens much simpler than what, but like them can reproduce only within a host cell?
"crossing over" occurs during what phase of mitosis?
What is the preferred food for almost all primates except for humans?
What property means that something can return to its original shape after being stretched or compressed?
Where does all igneous rock come from?
Three ways that waves may interact with matter are reflection, refraction, and what?
Sucrose consists of one molecule of glucose and one molecule of what else?
Many countries have attempted to reduce the human impact on climate change by reducing their emission of what greenhouse gas?
What occurs when arterioles lose their normal muscular tone and dilate dramatically?
Large or small numbers are expressed in scientific notation, which use powers of this?
Budding in sponges is a form of what type of reproduction?
Behaviors that are closely controlled by genes and have little to no environmental influence are called what kinds of behaviors?
Mutations which benefit the organism in which they occur are known as?
When gas particles collide, what kinds of collisions are these considered?
Around 1200 species of what broad animal group are currently at risk of extinction due to human activity?
The galápagos islands are a group of 16 volcanic islands 600 miles off the west coast of what continent?
What structures on the gastrodermal cells keep the contents of the gastrovascular cavity agitated and help distribute nutrients?
What is the factor that affects the solubility of solutes in all three states?
What kind of ph would you find in water from bogs?
Where do most of the digestion reactions occur?
What is the name of the process where light is produced without heat?
Meats and dairy products link to photosynthesis because the animals were fed what?
What the scientific concept stating that when looking at two competing theories, the one with fewer assumptions should be chosen?
What type of map would show average temperatures and rainfall?
What is the name of the sugar that plants produce to be used as food?
Just under their skin, marine mammals have a very thick layer of insulating fat called what?
While in the lungs, blood gives up carbon dioxide and picks up what element before returning to the heart?
White blood cells called what travel to areas of the body that are inflamed?
How many valence electrons can be found in a carbon atom?
Diaphragm, lungs, and trachea take air deep into the body and provide oxygen gas to what?
What gases move in and out of blood during gas exchange?
What keeps various species from mating and reproducing outside their own species?
A refrigerator must do work to reverse the normal direction of what?
The bone matrix consists of tough protein fibers—mainly what?
Alkynes are what type of compound?
Solar cells turn sunlight directly into what?
What type of invertebrate typically has a single spiraled shell?
What are nutrients the body needs in relatively large amounts called?
What is observed when two perpendicular flagella moves?
What is the name of a branch of the chemistry that deals with the interconversion of chemical energy and electrical energy?
Which system in the body exchanges gases with the outside air?
What is a double membrane of the nucleus that encloses the genetic material?
What is the highest taxon in the classification of living things?
Animal-like protists are called what?
Mating with no strong pair-bonds is called?
Rna is especially important during synthesis of what?
Like other bryophytes, moss plants spend most of their life cycle as what?
What is the ring of hooks tapeworms use to attach themselves?
What form because water erodes the outside of curves and deposits eroded material on the inside?
Which waterfall series is the largest on the planet?
What term is used to describe modern seed plants that produce seeds in cones?
What kind of joints does the skull have that do not allow any movement?
The shoulder and hip are examples of what type of joints?
The tails of the hale-bopp comet point away from the sun, evidence that light has what property of motion?
What type of virus can cause painful sores on the mouth and genitals?
The flood of sodium ions through the symporter provides the energy that allows what to move through the symporter and into the cell?
Alternative current is produced when a magnet or coil does what?
What are the chemical formulas for covalent compounds referred to as?
What do secondary spermatocytes form when completing meiosis?
What is the name of the muscle that contracts to cause the joint to straighten?
Name the process of removing wastes from the body.
What term means the percentage by mass of each element in a compound?
Beaches and deserts collect large deposits of what?
What is the name for animals that have a backbone?
The attractive force between water molecules is what kind of reaction?
Which procedure helps modern nuclear physics convert lead into gold?
Alkanes are nonpolar and therefore do not attract what?
What do we call the lowest layer of the atmosphere?
Oxygenated blood is transported by what system?
Internal resistance, or (electrical) resistance in general, involves the resistance of the flow of what?
What gas produced by fossil fuel use is a major cause of global warming?
What supports most of earth's ecosystems?
Because carbohydrates have a carbonyl functional group and several hydroxyl groups, they can undergo a variety of biochemically important reactions. the carbonyl group, for example, can be oxidized to form a carboxylic acid or reduced to form this?
What do earth and the other planets in the solar system make around the sun?
What do anglerfish use their glow-in-the-dark, rod-like structure for?
Surface tension is responsible for the fact that small insects can do this on water?
What kind of muscle is responsible for making the human heart beat?
Channel proteins and carrier proteins help substances diffuse across what?
Humans building communities to make survival easier is an example of humans as a species changing their what?
When a lower energy level is ______ electrons are added to the next higher energy level.
The amount of force applied per given area is called?
What is the atomic number of magnesium?
After the egg is fertilized the mrna is translated into what?
What is the process that ventilates lungs called?
What aspect of beryllium allows it to absorb x-rays?
What are drilled to monitor groundwater pollution?
The two smallest carboxylic acids are formic acid and what else?
What incredibly successful species has quickly colonized almost all of earth’s terrestrial habitats, but also impacted earth, its climate, and its environment?
What  prepares the body for fight or flight during emergencies?
Gymnosperms have evolved to include what?
How do gametophyte plants form haploid gametes?
What french chemist discovered the radioactive elements polonium and radium?
What is another term for the parabolic motion of a thrown object?
Passive immunity arises from the transfer of what to an individual, without requiring them to mount their own active immune response?
At equilibrium reactants and what are equally abundant?
Mitochondria are thought to have evolved from what kind of cells?
An acellular, external cuticle protects the _________.
The average number of individuals per unit of area or volume is referred to as a population's what?
What is the medical term for a condition caused by abnormalities, such as mutations, in your genes or chromosomes?
What is glucose used for the bacteria?
What do carnivores eat?
What is algae easier to covert into that corn is currently used for?
Dividing net force by total mass yields what?
What ensures that seeds germinate only when conditions for seedling survival are optimal?
The a in atp is short for what?
How many fingers do apes have on each hand?
Which atomic particle has a positive charge?
What does the presence of gill slits suggest about humans and fish?
What was first discovered in songbirds that produce new neurons while learning songs?
Whether focused on ancient life, the life of bacteria, or how humans could live on the moon, four unifying principles form the basis of what branch of science?
What do we call the center of a hurricane where the air is calm and clear?
Mass can be destroyed to release what?
Name the organ located behind the nasal cavity in which both food and air pass through?
Both mitosis and meiosis result in eukaryotic cells doing what?
In resting neurons, the plasma membrane has many open potassium channels but few open of which other channels?
The theory of evolution by what (and other processes) explains both the diversity of organisms and how populations of organisms change over time?
What is formed when a monomer of glucose and a monomer of fructose are joined in a dehydration reaction to form a glycosidic bond?
What is the spread of cancer cells beyond their original site called?
What is another name for flatworms such as tapeworms and flukes?
The lithosphere-asthensophere divisions are based on what?
The second shell holds a maximum of how many electrons?
Olfaction refers to which of the five senses?
What devices convert mechanical energy to electric energy?
When oxygen is not bound to heme and the partial pressure of oxygen is low, hemoglobin readily binds to what?
What is group 16 of the periodic table referred to?
Restoring nitrogen to the soil is one reason for what agricultural practice?
What is the term for evolution over geologic time above the level of the species?
Is the heat of reaction positive or negative for an endothermic reaction?
The superior nasal concha and middle nasal concha are parts of which bone?
The energy a chemical reaction needs to get started is called what kind of energy?
Crossing charges is one method for obtaining what?
What do scientists collect to test a hypothesis?
Fatal swelling of what organ can result from both encephalitis and meningitis, which typically cause a severe headache and a fever?
Gases can undergo diffusion, or the opposite, which is what?
What science is the study of the occurrence, distribution, and determinants of health and disease in a population?
Amphibian larvae go through what process to change into the adult form?
Reducing the production of what gas, or removing it from the air, are practices that could reduce global warming?
There are a series of rules for naming branched alkanes (and, ultimately, for all organic compounds). these rules make up the system of nomenclature for naming what?
Which theory helps predict future events in weather?
What is defined as a group of living and nonliving things and their environment?
Cancer is caused by mutations, which can be caused by pathogens, chemicals, or what else?
What is the term for a mutually beneficial relationship in which one organism lives inside the other?
All new alleles are formed by what types of mutations?
What are seeds plants that produce naked seeds in cones called?
Water is the solvent in solutions called acids and?
What two gases are the main components of air?
Anaerobic prokaryotes can live without what compound in their environment (it's a compound that people do need to live)?
What part of earth do many animals use for navigation?
Endocytosis and exocytosis are types of vesicle transport that carry very large molecules across what structure?
What are biochemical compounds that living things use to store energy and make cell membranes?
What happens to the volume of a balloon when you add moles of gas to it by blowing up?
The addition of starting materials and the removal of end products prevent metabolism from reaching what state?
In what year was the hardy-weinberg theorem formulated?
The regulation of gene expression is extremely important during the development of what?
What does a virus inject into the host cell?
Mutations in regulatory genes that normally control the cell cycle cause what?
Blood is made up of red blood cells, white blood cells, platelets, and what else?
What is the term for the study of how living things interact with each other and with their environment?
What takes place directly after developing a hypothesis in the scientific method process?
What should you use to protect your eyes from chemicals?
Because action potentials are so brief, a neuron can produce hundreds per what?
Darwin coined what term to refer to an organism’s relative ability to survive and produce fertile offspring?
At high pressures, how are the molecules of a gas crowded?
The number of possible isomers increases tremendously as carbon skeletons increase in what?
What are vascular plants that produce seeds in cones called?
What does photosynthesis change light energy into?
Addiction affects what type of chemical receptors within the brain?
What is the ability of an atom to emit, or give off, charged particles and energy from the nucleus?
What group of gases are unusually unreactive?
A point defect can be an atom missing from a site in the crystal known as a what?
What is the place called where the axon of one neuron meets the dendrite of another?
Organic chemistry is the study of the chemistry of what?
Gastropods, cephalopods, and bivalves are examples of what class?
What type of cholesterol is commonly referred to as bad?
Where does most natural gas come from?
Medical problems associated with the body responding poorly to insulin are commonly associated with what disease?
The pancreatic hormones insulin and glucagon maintain glucose homeostasis by tightly regulating the synthesis and breakdown of what?
The marsupial embryo is nourished inside the uterus with food from a yolk sac instead of through a what?
The substances that comprise heterogeneous mixtures can also be separated by what means?
What type of organism has spores that are spread by water and wind?
Through which organ do hookworm larvae enter the human body?
Inside a cylinder, thermal energy is converted to what type of energy of the moving piston?
To the extent that behaviors are controlled by what, they may evolve through natural selection?
What kind of muscle relationship generally produces back-and-forth movement of a body part?
Science is a process of knowing about the natural universe through what two actions?
Through a process called electromagnetic induction, generators change what energy form of a spinning turbine to electrical energy?
Footprints, burrows, and waste are considered what type of fossils?
What process of allows multicellular organisms to grow and repair themselves?
What is the process of a confined gas escaping through a tiny hole in its container called?
What is a relationship between living things that depend on the same resources?
What is the measure of an individual’s weight-to-height ratio called?
When you are walking on a sidewalk, what occurs between your shoes and the concrete each time you put down your foot?
According to the english system measurement, how much is equal to 2 pints, 1 quart, and ¼ of a gallon?
Many important crops, such as corn, are planted and harvested as what?
The turbine of a windmill spins and creates what?
Found in cord blood and other sources, what kind of cells hold the promise of renewing and repairing body tissues?
Which law explains why a ship weighing thousands of metric tons floats on water?
The urinary system can be considered a smaller part of what other body system?
Essential minerals that the body needs in tiny quantities are called what?
The process by which leaves collect sunlight and make food is called this?
What are the three types of rna involved in protein synthesis?
What is the term for chordates with a vertebral column and endoskeleton of cartilage and bone?
What does a keratometer measure in the cornea?
What is it called when an egg develops into an individual without being fertilized?
Many adolescents experience frequent mood swings.  name one of the causes for this.
Through what does the nerve impulses travel to the brain?
The difference in electric potential energy which allows for an electric charge to move from one position to another is measured by what si unit?
The properties of the alkali metals are similar to each other as expected for elements in the same what?
Which division of the peripheral nervous system carries messages from sense organs and internal organs to the central nervous system?
An ether is an organic compound in which two hydrocarbon groups are bonded to the same atom of what?
Featuring a stalk-like filament that ends in an anther, what is the male reproductive organ in a flower?
What controls the movements of hands and arms?
Refraction happens when light bends from doing what in a new medium?
What is the basic structure that holds plants upright, allowing plants to get the sunlight and air they need?
The waves on the strings of musical instruments are transverse—so are electromagnetic waves, such as visible light. sound waves in air and water are this?
What is the name of the elongated bony structure that anchors the anterior thoracic cage?
What is the most numerous species on the planet?
What are the earth's two poles called?
Chloroplasts and chromoplasts are examples of which membrane bound organelle containing their own dna?
Birds are the most numerous  type of what vertebrates?
Viruses were assumed to exist before they were first seen with an electron microscope in which decade?
Matter is always conserved in what type of reaction?
Most flowers carry both stamens and carpels; however, a few species are capable of what and are nicknamed "perfect" flowers?
The entry of food into the esophagus marks the beginning of the esophageal phase of deglutition and the initiation of this?
Where are the seeds in gymnosperms found?
Oil is found in the porous rock layer and trapped by the what?
The number of valence electrons determines variation of what property in nonmetals?
Hydrogen and helium are specifically involved as reactants in what nuclear reaction that is useful for making energy?
What is the most widely used form of renewable energy in the world?
What energy is the energy of motion?
Where do stratus clouds occur in the troposphere?
What kind of movement do planets in the solar system make around the sun?
Which process breaks down glucose to extract energy for cell metabolism?
What does fluorine attract better than any other element?
What term is used to describe the muscular canal (approximately 10 cm long) that serves as the entrance to the reproductive tract?
What type of energy travels through space as electrical and magnetic waves?
What are subatomic particles of the nucleus called?
What blood pressure reading measures the pressure in the vessels between heartbeats?
What holds ionic and covalent compounds together?
Amines are bases; they react with acids to form what?
If water from a spring can't flow downwards, it can spread out to form one of 2 things.  what are they?
Energy is lost as heat between each trophic level due to the second law of what?
What are electrons in the outer energy level of an atom called?
Halogens tend to form salts with what type of element?
The voltage is measured using a voltmeter, which measures which difference across two points?
What is the vertical extent of ocean water called?
Echinoderms are found in many different ocean environments, but most are found where?
A convergent plate boundary is created when two plates do what?
When volcanoes erupt, what from the mantle is released as carbon dioxide into the air?
Sepals, petals, pistils, and stamens are contained in all what, which are actually modified leaves or sporophylls organized around a central stalk?
What do cells do in order to replace damaged or worn out cells?
What kind of agriculture destroyed about 10% of madagascar's native plants?
Chloroplasts are the little green particles in plants made up of what colorful pigment?
What is the largest organ of the human body?
What kind of charge does a proton have?
What are boggy regions with thick layers of peat called?
What type of compounds make up the cells and tissues of living things?
Anything that has mass and takes up space is considered what?
What will you see if you look at a star through a prism?
Where is most digestion completed?
Explosive eruptions associated with what can be tens of thousands of times as powerful as an atomic bomb?
What gland secretes its products directly into the urethra through several small ducts
The complete combustion of alkanes to carbon dioxide is an extremely __________ reaction.
What is the study of structure, properties, and interactions of matter?
Because several genes, each with more than one allele, contribute to determining height in humans, height is considered what kind of trait?
A basidium is the fruiting body of a mushroomproducing fungus, and it forms four what?
Traditional classification of mammals are based on similarities in what two things?
The rest of the energy stored in glucose is lost as what?
Water that is lost through the skin through evaporation from the skin surface without overt sweating and from air expelled from the lungs is known as what?
What are the only innate behaviors in humans?
What occurs when a parent organism breaks into fragments, or pieces, and each fragment develops into a new organism?
What does the triploid cell develop into during fertilization?
The law of conservation of matter, which says that matter cannot be created or this?
Which particle of an atom has a positive electric charge?
How is a reaction described when the given conditions favor formation of products?
What does an electric field surround?
Lack of what mineral causes rickets?
What do we call the energy of motion?
Earthquakes and visible light are examples of what?
There is always a slightly negative pressure within what cavity, helping keep the airways of the lungs open?
What property allows cut logs to float on water?
Different interatomic distances produce different lattice what?
What organs filter blood and form urine?
A chain of what structures form as an oceanic plate moves over a hotspot?
What is responsible for many properties of covalent compounds, which have relatively low boiling points, cannot conduct electricity, and may not dissolve in water?
Tanning salons claim to use a “safe” form of what light, with a longer wavelength than that in sunlight?
Respiratory therapists or respiratory practitioners evaluate and treat patients diseases affecting what part of the body?
Within each sporangium, hundreds of what kind of spores develop and are dispersed through the air?
What delivers power to the chemical factory chloroplasts?
Which type of bryophytes are named for their horn-like sporophytes?
What do you call a carnivore that eats mainly insects?
Oxygen has the second highest electronegativity of any element; consequently, it prefers to share or accept electrons from other elements. only with fluorine does oxygen form compounds in this?
What component of cells is present in plant and bacterial cells but not animal cells?
Energy cannot be created or destroyed - it can only change what?
Most fungi can reproduce in which 2 ways?
What is a pair of valence electrons in a bonded atom that does not participate in bonding called?
When a metal is oxidized and a nonmetal is reduced in a redox reaction, what is the resulting compound called?
A biofilm is a colony of prokaryotes that is stuck to what?
What is the part of the flower that produces pollen?
What neutralizes the acidity of chyme and acts as a buffer?
What type of stress causes horizontal motions in strike-slip faults?
The structure of the boeing 787 has been described as essentially one giant macromolecule, where everything is fastened through cross-linked chemical bonds reinforced with this?
What is the term for the process in which two atomic nuclei fuse together to make a single nucleus?
In human beings, when a female becomes pregnant, what is fertilized and then embedded in the uterus?
What has increased the greenhouse effect?
How many pairs of chromosomes are there?
What structure passes oxygen and nutrients to a growing fetus in mammals?
Light from a distant galaxy can travel different paths to the earth because it is bent around an intermediary galaxy by what?
What is the fruiting body that occurs after two hyphae mate and form a mycelium with sporangia?
What branch of science aims to understand all about our planet and its environments?
Prokaryotes are successful because of the ________ of reproduction in favorable environments
Where do benthos live in oceans?
Hundreds of organelles called myofibrils, made up of two types of protein filaments, are contained in each fiber of what?
What is the largest known virus?
The temperature at which something melts is refered to as what?
Solid bedrock vibrates less and therefore does less of what to bedrock?
What branch of science is defined as the study of matter?
What are animals that live with tiny zooxanthellae that also photosynthesize?
What usually causes fractures on a bone?
What is the magnetic field traditionally referred to as?
What can ultimately result when species are introduced to a new place and prey on other species?
In humans, what is the first organ to form and become functional?
What is used to classify tornadoes?
What do you call materials that have high resistance to electric current?
What term is used to describe the development of new technology?
Cell walls, plastids, and a large central vacuole distinguish plant cells from what?
Snails, scallops, and squids are what type of invertebrate?
Humans create different breeds of organisms using what kind of selection?
The word antibiotic comes from the greek anti, meaning “against,” and bios, meaning this?
What are sudden and dramatic losses of biodiversity called?
The ions in ionic compounds are arranged in rigid three-dimensional patterns called what?
Where was the distinction between total distance traveled and displacement first noted?
What science is the study of the shape and arrangement of cells in tissue?
What forms when a sperm fertilizes and egg?
The field of organic chemistry studies the structure and reactivity of compounds containing what element?
Where does growth in length occur, above the root cap?
Asci are used by mycelia for what kind of reproduction?
What is the term used to describe the liquid that moves through the vessels and includes plasma and the cells and sell fragments called platelets?
The density of bone is, in part, related to the amount of what mineral in one’s diet?
What is the sum of the masses of the atoms in a molecule?
Chloroplasts, leucoplasts and chromoplasts are found in what type of cells?
Salt in seawater causes it to have greater what, which is also affected by temperature and pressure?
What is the name of a long and low hill of sediments which have been deposited by a glacier?
The temperature of the products is typically lower than the temperature of the reactants in what type of reaction?
What is the most common type of cancer in adult females?
Green plants known as producers provide basic food supply for what besides themselves?
The lipids that are connected to the glucose pathways are cholesterol and triglycerides. cholesterol is a lipid that contributes to cell membrane flexibility and is a precursor of this?
What chemical reaction is the opposite of oxidation?
What structure is a larger assembly of several polypeptide chains that are now referred to as subunits of the protein?
The punnett square shows the possible what, and their most likely ratios?
Angiosperms produce their gametes in separate organs, which are usually housed in these?
What are the two types of charges?
What is the name for a change in a single nucleotide in dna?
Ocean acidification results from the ocean absorbing what gas from the atmosphere?
What are organisms that feed on available plants called?
What is the limiting factor for bacteria in a dish?
Where are some of the greatest concentrations of species found?
What do tadpoles clear out of waterways?
What theory says stresses build on both sides of a fault?
How many pairs of autosomes are there?
What are the only living organisms that can make their own food?
The brain and spinal cord are part of what system, which serves as a control center?
What are the highest clouds in the atmosphere?
What type of reproduction results in genetically unique offspring?
What is a disorder of glucose metabolism in which insulin production by the pancreas is impaired?
Splitting of the nucleus of a radioactive atom into two smaller nuclei yields what type of reaction, which releases a great deal of energy from a small amount of matter?
Colliding-beam accelerators create matter from what?
What is the term for the measure of the force of gravity pulling down on an object?
Aging is associated with the death of what?
Animals that live in groups with other members of their species are called what?
What are typically named for their major physical or climatic factors in addition to their predominant vegetation?
What type of vents are giant tube worms found at?
What results when a force does work?
At the earth’s surface, the air pressure exerted on you is a result of the weight of what above you?
What is a common condition caused by stomach acid?
Where do the majority of species live?
What process brings nutrients from the ocean's floor to its surface?
Crests and troughs are the high and low points of a what?
What is the term for materials that have been left behind by organisms that once lived?
A penguin must do what before molting?
The pelvic girdle, consisting of a hip bone, serves to attach a lower limb to this?
Why does water have a high surface tension?
What are the two types of vascular tissues found in vascular plants?
What are the two types of photoreceptors in the retina?
Forces which cause objects to turn around continuously in a circle are known as?
Why is a synthetic diamond not considered a mineral?
What type of plug is generally used on metal appliances?
What term describes the ability of matter to combine chemically with other substances?
What occurs when waves interact with other waves?
What is defined in physics as the amount of force pushing against a given area?
What do you call the heat below earth’s surface that can be used to produce electricity?
How do most plants create food?
In a ketone, two of which kind of groups are attached to the carbonyl carbon atom?
Tapeworms are what type of flatworms?
In most crustaceans, what two structures fuse to form a cephalothorax?
What class of animal, including hydras and jellies, is considered the simplest to contain a nervous system?
When iron and sulfur are mixed together in a certain ratio and heated, what do they become?
What do many scientists think are the oldest eukaryotes?
Culprits in the common cold and aids, what infectious agents are far smaller and simpler than bacteria?
What triangular feature is formed when a river empties into a large body of still water?
Professionals known as genetic counselors can help them understand the risks of?
What type of fronts often bring sudden changes in the weather, including different types of precipitation, depending on the season?
Similarity in biochemicals, like the glucose used by virtually all living things for energy, provides evidence of what?
In type 2 diabetes, body cells do not respond to normal amounts of what hormone?
What fibres are seen in some vertebrates that twitch at rates far faster than any human muscle?
The cytoplasm divides during what process?
Where do birds store and moisten food that is waiting to be digested?
Where can you find humid subtropical climates?
What type of lenses can correct myopia?
Photoautotrophs including (a) plants, (b) algae, and (c) cyanobacteria synthesize their organic compounds via photosynthesis using sunlight as this?
Glaciers modify the landscape by what?
The cells in the follicle undergo physical changes and produce a structure called a what?
Scientists can use what tool to determine an earthquake's strength?
How many moons does pluto have?
Huge calderas form when the mountain above an empty chamber of what collapses?
What type of bonds are the attractive forces between the positively charged nuclei of the bonded atoms and one or more pairs of electrons that are located between the atoms?
Chemical elements and water are constantly recycled in the ecosystem through what?
What system is the spinal cord related to?
What is the total range of the energy from the sun called?
Plants have specialized organs that help them survive and reproduce in a great diversity of habitats. major organs of most plants include roots, stems, and what?
The lungs of mammals are unique in having what?
The organs of female mammals that that produce eggs are called what?
What do you call the patterns and groups of stars in the sky that ancient people observed and made stories about?
Each enzyme has an optimal what at which its reaction rate is greatest?
What type of prokaryotes live in habitats without oxygen?
What is the only metal that is liquid at room temperature?
What do animals store with the help of saturated fatty acids?
What are the dark areas of the moon called?
What do people use from aquifers from springs or wells?
What item lost by diffusion and in the urine are replenished by eating?
What is the primary cause of air movement in the troposphere?
In cellular respiration, glucose is broken down and what is made?
The sum of the kinetic and potential energies of a system’s atoms and molecules is called what?
After what state is reached, the concentrations of all reaction components remain constant unless a change is made to the system?
What type of reproduction is exemplified by starfish and yeasts?
What is the scientific term for stored energy an object has due to its position or shape?
What kind of current flows in just one direction?
Most motions in nature follow ________ rather than straight lines?
An object's energy due to motion is known as?
While populations with unlimited resources grow exponentially, the population of a species will level off when what limit of its environment is reached?
Group 16 is called what?
What type of temperatures increase the likelihood of fires?
Fertilizer runoff can create what type of zones in the ocean?
What kind of electricity can you generate with the energy found in flowing water?
At the time of birth, bones of the brain case are separated by what wide areas of fibrous connective tissue, which later become sutures?
What are inorganic compounds that take the form of discrete molecules called?
The other ammonium ions are changed into nitrogen gas by what?
What is typical weather for chicago in winter?
What works by providing a lower energy pathway from reactants to products?
What is the smallest part of a compound?
What layer of skin is located right beneath the epidermis?
Some terrestrial species breathe through their skin and oral cavity because they lack what?
What is the main type of cell in the nervous system called?
Many ionic compounds occur as hydrates, compounds that contain specific ratios of loosely bound water molecules, called waters of hydration. waters of hydration can often be removed simply by doing this?
When blood vessels in the head dilate, what kind of severe headache can occur?
Acne and different types of cancer can affect what large organ?
Prokaryotic cells can only regulate gene expression by controlling the amount of what?
Where do oceans absorb gases from?
Engaging in relatively simple behaviors helps maintain a nearly constant body temperature for organisms classified as what?
Meningitis is an infection of the membranes that cover the brain and what else?
What use enzymes to break down foreign matter and dead cells?
What is indicated by the ratio of the output force to the input force in a machine?
Glucocorticoids and mineralocorticoids are the two main types of what in humans?
What keeps the earth orbiting the sun?
How do bees communicate to tell other bees where food is located?
Along with nerve tissue, what kind of tissue are lecithins and cephalins important constituents of?
Metal detectors used for airport security work on which principle?
Methanogens in their gut enable what process in cows?
The skeleton of lampreys is made of what?
How do amphibians reproduce?
What are scientists called who study the weather and give forecasts?
Autocrine signaling takes place within the same what?
Both dna and rna are what type of acids?
What kind of a resource is soil, for human purposes?
A natural resource that is consumed or used up faster than it can be made by nature is termed what?
An electrical motor changes electrical energy into what?
What is name for a piece of collagen-rich skin formed after the process of wound healing that differs from normal skin?
Young eutherians complete their embryonic development within what?
Nuclear reactors use fission reactions to vaporize water, producing steam to drive a turbine and generate what?
What type of air do plants take in and use?
How long can a large star be on the main sequence stage?
What do you call the pattern of lines formed when light passes through a prism to separate it into the different frequencies of light it contains?
What is the term for a watertight seal between two adjacent animal cells?
What is at the surface of a cell, arranged in similar bilayer?
Vitamins are organic compounds that are essential in very small amounts for the maintenance of normal what?
In eukaryotic cells, what divides before the cell itself divides?
The joint that lies between the radius and the ulna is what kind of joint?
Because it damages hair cells, what is the most cause of hearing loss in adults?
What is regulated to ensure that the correct proteins are made?
What mirrors diverge light rays and, thus, have a negative focal length?
During what stage are chromosomes condensed enough to be seen under a microscope?
What is an odorless white solid that is harmless unless consumed in large quantities?
Melting, sublimation, and evaporation absorb what from their surroundings?
What is the series of changes in the reproductive system of a mature female that happens monthly?
What is the average number of individuals per unit of area or volume called?
What types of living beings have water vascular systems and unique tube feet?
Which two gases make up the bulk of earth's atmosphere?
What is the decayed remains of living organisms called?
The motor thus acts as a generator whenever its coil does what?
Norovirus causes the inflammation of the stomach and what else?
What forms when tectonic plates move above a hot spot?
What is the multicellular diploid stage called?
Myopia is commonly called what?
The prostate gland secretes a fluid that mixes with sperm to help form what?
About 95 percent of lipids are absorbed in what organ of the digestive system?
What type of work called occurs when a system pushes back the surroundings against a restraining pressure?
In some parts of the world, too much of the sun's harmful uv radiation gets through because of a hole in what layer?
What type of animal eats both plants and animals?
What is the term for the muscular duct through which sperm are propelled?
What is the most common cause of cancer?
The testes produce what hormone?
Capillaries are narrow-diameter tubes that can fit red blood cells through in single file and are the sites for the exchange of what?
Pieces of the cell break off and form a new cell in what type of reproduction that produces genetically identical organisms?
How do most reptiles produce?
The minimum amount necessary for self-sustained fission of a given nuclide is called what?
What are genes that are close together on the same chromosome called?
What do neutral atoms have the same number of?
Omnivores are animals that eat both plant- and?
Bacterial dna is contained in a large, circular strand; this single chromosome is located in a region of the cell called what?
Which primate group generally lives alone?
Carbon and what are the second and third most abundant elements in your body?
Glucagon and insulin are produced in what organ?
Anagen, catagen and telogen are phases in the growth of what, which involves the root and follicle?
What is the scientific term for the dropping of leaves, fruits, and flowers, which led to the naming of an acid thought to play a role in the process?
Sudden changes in geologic and climatic conditions can spur what process?
What is the fluid that carries sperm through the urethra and out of the body, and provides it with nutrients?
In what unit is frequency measured in?
Mixtures of materials called alloys contain at least one of what type of material?
The challenge of techniques used for proteomic analyses is the difficulty in detecting small quantities of what?
What type of gas is delivered to homes to use for cooking and heating?
Chewing a bite of bread mixes it with what and facilitates its chemical breakdown?
What is occurring at an alarming rate as a result of global climate change and the constant melting point of ice?
What triggers the fight-or-flight response?
What is the term for the force applied to a wheel and axle?
Magnetic resonance imaging devices use what to cool the superconducting magnets?
Water moving up the plane and evaporating from the leaves is a process known as what?
How many bones fuse together to form the cranium?
What is the amount of moisture in the atmosphere?
What heisenberg principle imposes ultimate limits on what is knowable in science?
Narrowing of the arterioles causes an increase of what upstream in the arteries?
What are double sugars called?
Cells that undergo cell division continue to have their telomeres shortened, thus telomere shortening is associated with what life process?
Which two basic parts of a plant develop tough outer coatings to protect the plant from the environment?
What is the name for a kind of animal that eats a mix of plant and animal foods.
Oxygenated air, taken in during inhalation, diffuses across the surface of the lungs into the what?
What substances, which serve as catalysts, are involved in most of the chemical reactions that take place in organisms?
What is the type of plant called when its leaves seasonally turn color and fall off?
Besides the endocrine system, what other system exerts control over all the organ systems of the body?
What is the area where an electron is most likely to be found called?
The part of the ecosystem required by a particular species is endangered when human activity threatens loss of what?
What is the wavelength of light expressed in?
What is found inside the pores of spongy bone?
The strength of an acid depends on how many of which ions it produces when it dissolves in water?
How many oxygen ions make up an ozone molecule?
While light travels at different speeds in different kinds of matter, the speed of light is constant in what condition?
What kind of solution might cause animal cells to burst?
Transition metals are superior conductors of heat as well as what else?
Our digestive system breaks down starch to what?
What happens to a tectonic plate when it subducts?
A monosaccharide is the simplest carbohydrate and cannot be hydrolyzed to produce a smaller what?
What is the term for if multiple sperm fuse with an egg?
As air pressures inside and outside of the ear equalize, what phenomenon is produced?
How many pairs of chromosomes are there?
Food is broken into smaller particles by mastication, a process involving action by what structures?
Cell communication that occurs over short distances is known as what?
Triggering a blink when something touches the surface of the eye, the corneal reflex is what type of reflex?
Vascular disorders involve problems with the flow of what?
In eukaryotes, mrna may be modified before leaving what?
Velocity affects what type of energy more than mass does?
In which way do vertebrates reproduce?
Neutrons and protons reside in which part of the atom?
What are the two best known baryons?
Mutation creates new genetic variation in what?
What hormone controls milk production in mammary glands?
Cellular respiration brings hydrogen and oxygen together to form what?
What are the two components of the autonomic nervous system?
Where do lancelets live?
What is caused when circulating blood puts pressure on the walls of blood vessels?
What is the most common bacterial sti in the u. s.?
In what unit is heat measured in?
In which type of cells are most organelles not found?
Which three colors are called the primary colors of light?
Water dissolving minerals out of rocks makes ocean water what?
Like the energy content in food, the energy expenditures of exercise are also reported in what units?
What's the term for an allele that's always expressed over another?
Series and parallel circuits are two basic types of what?
Transport of water and solutes in plants water potential is a measure of the difference in potential energy between a water sample and this?
Three distinct layers or tunics form the walls of what structures; the first is a smooth, inner lining of endothelial cells in contact with the red blood cells?
Groundwater does what to the rock beneath the ground surface?
Technetium is named after the greektechnikos, meaning “artificial,” because all its isotopes are what?
What is a galvanic process that can be prevented using cathodic protection?
What are drumlins, eskers, and kettle lakes formed by?
What is the vector sum of all the torques acting on the object called?
An electric current flows in a path called what?
What gas can be generated by reacting sodium bromide with elemental chlorine?
What is a close relationship between two species in which at least one species benefits?
Over many generations, the resulting genetic diversity provides valuable raw material for what?
What pulls skydivers towards the earth?
What occurs when a gas passes through an opening that is smaller than the mean free path of the particles?
What are the preserved remains of animals, plants, and other organisms called?
What group of elements cannot conduct electricity?
What is the name of a tough, fibrous membrane which protects the outer layer of bone?
Bond lengths are intermediate between covalent single bonds and what?
Under a microscope, salt crystals are what shape?
Where part of the atmosphere is the uppermost mantle?
In a heat map, what color represents the hottest temperatures?
All living things require what, which most ecosystems obtain from the sun?
Kelvin is a temperature measure in which the lowest temperature is what?
The basic fabric of most biological membranes is a double layer of _________ and other lipids?
What is the name for the organs behind the head of a fish that absorb oxygen from water?
What system gets less effective with age, that generally makes older people more disease susceptible?
Which type of tides are created when the sun and moon's tides match?
What is the process of creating an exact genetic replica of an organism called?
An example of hydrolysis working within our bodies is the process of what?
What theory can explain virtually all the properties of metals?
Serious imbalances, cancer and other diseases can result when expression of what goes awry?
Which organ's diseases include kidney stones, infections, and kidney failure due to diabetes?
What single-celled organism can be either a predator, decomposer, herbivore, or parasite in the food chain?
What layer, made of hot, solid rock, is beneath the earth's crust?
Some bacteria can contaminate food and cause what illness?
The enzyme pepsin works only in the presence of what?
What organisms known as decomposers break down wastes and dead organisms into smaller molecules?
Both flukes and tapeworms are parasites with what kind of host?
What is the transfer of information from rna to dna called?
In science, anything that has mass and volume is considered what?
Cells with different functions often differ in what physical property?
Wich disorder arises when defective valves allow blood to accumulate within the veins?
Ocean water has what property because water dissolves minerals out of rocks?
What term refers to patterns of stars seen from earth?
What gives the plant cell strength and protection?
If pollination occurs, what does the zygote develop into?
Hiv has proteins called what, internal to the envelope, which help stabilize virion shape?
What are two basic types of pollutants in the air?
How do humans learn behaviors?
Just about all life processes depend on what?
During labor, what do contractions of the muscular walls of the uterus cause?
How is communication initiated and maintained with spacecraft?
Dna replication is the first step in what process for both eukaryotic and prokaryotic cells?
The prostate is formed of both muscular and which other tissues?
A mammal that reproduces by laying eggs is called what?
Adaptations that go along with the active, carnivorous lifestyle of sharks are known as?
What is considered to be the control center for homeostatic mechanisms?
What molecules with a nitrogen base are the basic components of nucleic acids?
What were the first vertebrates to evolve?
What is defined as the rate of energy transferred?
The cochlea and vestibul make up what part of the ear?
An individual with the appropriate number of what for their species is called euploid; abnormalities in this number include trisomy and monosomy?
A, t, g, and c pairs are associated with what substance that is important in genetics?
What female flower structure, which is part of the pistil, receives the pollen grains and passes them to the ovary?
What is used by sensitive systems to detect even low levels of radiation?
What is the leading cause of skin cancer?
What is cholera?
Which element has atomic number 87?
What is the basic chemical building block of matter; it is the simplest chemical substance?
What do you call the lower layer of soil that is permanently frozen, and is a frequent feature of tundra?
Modern taxonomy is based on many hypotheses' of the evolutionary history of organisms, known as this?
What method plays a role in determining the approximate age of the earth and makes use of uranium?
The study of energy and energy transfer involving physical matter is what?
In a science lab, what device would you use to measure the volume of a liquid?
Human blood has a buffering system to minimize extreme changes in what?
The unpaired ethmoid bone is located where within the central skull?
A statement is considered what if it is open to being falsified?
Name the physical phenomenon of the ocean that has a significant impact on both ocean life and human life.
What is the process by which large particles, such as cells, are taken in by a cell?
Budding is a form of what type of reproduction in tunicates?
Ocean water releases dissolved carbon dioxide into the atmosphere when what happens to the temperature?
The physical sciences can be divided into physics and what other science?
What do you call trees that lose their leaves in the fall and grow new ones in the spring?
In which organ of the body does gluconeogenesis primarily take place?
What kind of structure contains the largest known single cell?
While enzymatic hydrolysis proceeds, peristalsis moves the mixture of chyme and digestive juices along what?
What is the most common type of muscle in the human body?
The last two stages of aerobic respiration require what?
The rate of dissolving is influenced by surface area, stirring, and what else?
What disease unique to humans and is caused by two variola viruses?
What is the average kinetic energy of particles of matter?
How can you prevent your ice cream from getting a sandy texture?
Plants can lose their leaves, flower, or break dormancy in response to a change in what?
What is the second highest mountain in the world, at over 28,000 feet?
What are the two classifications of natural resources?
Maintaining a high metabolic rate takes a lot of what?
What is the photosynthesis factory of the plant?
The process that a plant increases in size is known as what?
What are reversible physical changes in matter called?
Compounds that form from two or more nonmetallic elements are called what?
The ability to maintain a stable internal temperature, despite the climate, is exhibited by members of what animal group?
What are substances that provide hydrogen ions (h+) and lower ph?
What are mercury manometers often used to measure?
What did rockets help launch into space during their beginning?
What sound can be heard when sound waves bounce back from a hard object?
Robert merrifield developed the first synthetic approach for making what essential cell substances in the lab?
Strangeness, charm, bottomness, and topness are properties of what subatomic particle?
What needs to happen to temperature to cause pressure to increase dramatically?
Australopithecus afarensis is an ancestor of what primate?
Organs that produce eggs and secrete estrogen are part of what system?
What are the most common types of compounds found on earth?
Which planet is closest to the sun?
What do you call it when adult fish of the same species come together in a group and release gametes into the water at the same time?
What happens to the volume of a gas as the kelvin temperature increases?
If only one atom of a specific type is present what is not used?
What are the earliest reptile genus named?
What produces all the cells of the root and the root cap?
What is the master gland of the endocrine system?
The earth’s biomes are categorized into two major groups named what?
What does the thymus gland produce?
During which phase does dna replication occur in the cell cycle?
What kind of interactions do polar substances experience?
Which process is glycolysis in during cellular respiration?
Saturated hydrocarbons are given the general name of what?
In the cellular process of transcription, dna code is converted into what other kind of code?
If a gyroscope is not spinning, it acquires angular momentum in the direction of what?
Which leukocytes are first to respond to bacterial infections?
What thin whip-like structures help prokaryotes move toward food or away from toxins?
What common process is used in the production of bread, cheese and alcoholic beverages?
Comprising 10 percent of the mass of the brain, what structure has varied functions that all point to a role in the motor system?
What is a segment of dna that carries a code for making a specific polypeptide chain called?
Introduction of antigens into the body through immunization can confer what benefit?
What part of the brain is largest in intelligent mammals?
What is the cause of most ocean waves?
What is the lowest layer of the atmosphere called?
What is the biggest group of animals on the planet?
The presence of solute particles blocks some of the ability for liquid particles to do what?
What are color and hardness physical properties of?
What are steroid hormones made of?
How many processes contribute to the emergence of viral diseases?
What type of scale is the richter scale?
Where is pedocal soil commonly found?
What are the key cells in the immune response?
Where are most chloroplasts found in plants?
What type of x-linked trait is color blindness?
What do you call a condensation reaction in which an ester is formed from an alcohol and a carboxylic acid?
These types of cella support young, growing parts of a plant?
What can be used to convert the energy provided by the sun to usable electrical energy?
Most plant cells have a large central what?
When you heat a pot of water on a stove top, energy moves from the pot to its metal handle by what process?
Of all the mineral nutrients, what contributes the most to plant growth and crop yields?
What do you call a reaction that consumes energy as it is carried out?
What type of rain dissolves and damages stone buildings and statues?
What organ packages nutrients absorbed by the digestive system; produces plasma proteins, clotting factors, and bile; and disposes of worn-out cell components and waste products?
What is defined as a push or pull acting on an object?
How much time does the moon take to complete one revolution around the earth?
Like other amphibians, frogs generally lay their eggs in moist environments, which are required since the eggs lack what feature?
What is the ratio of a wave frequency to its vibration frequency?
What is the hollow and muscular balloon-shaped organ that collects urine?
Sugars, starches, and cellulose are examples of what biochemical compounds that organisms use for energy?
During the embryonic stage of vertebrates, the notochord develops into what?
What category of joints is immovable?
What do male cones in seed plants contain?
What kind of harm does a corrosive substance cause?
Receptors for what chemical messengers recognize molecules with specific shapes and side groups, and respond only to those that are recognized?
A hydraulic jack that makes it possible to lift a car easily is an example of what, meaning it produces mechanical advantages?
What process consists of the mechanisms that produce an observed pattern of change?
Prokaryotic cells have a cell wall located outside of the __________?
Multiplying the linear momentum of a spinning object by the radius calculates what?
What are responsible for removing excess h+ ions from the blood?
What makes up the dense outer layer of bones?
What refers to a substance made from two or more elements joined by chemical bonds?
Stress building up at the same rate over time at a fault causes what phenomenon?
Materials made from non-living substances like pebbles and sand are called what?
What type of gas levels in the atmosphere are increasing?
What is the earths crust composed of?
Cells that are divided by oncogenes contain damaged what?
When does exchange of dna segments happen between non-sister chromatids of homologous chromosomes?
What are observable patterns of stars found in the night sky called?
If you were to filter out all the cells in blood, you would be left with what golden-yellow liquid?
The simplest organic compounds have hydrogen and what else?
Temperature and what other environmental factor are important in the activity of an enzyme?
What glands are wedges of glandular and neuroendocrine tissue adhering to the top of the kidneys by a fibrous capsule?
What is the force that pulls downward on an object and is measured by weight?
Which reproduction produces offspring genetically identical to the one parent?
Water in its solid state is commonly known as what?
Besides the concentration of dissolve oxygen and nutrients in the water, what other factor limits aquatic organisms?
Which type of membrane are ribosomes surrounded by?
Which scientist was responsible for the theory of evolution by natural selection?
Soft cartilage gradually turns into hard bone through what process?
Glycerol is a triol, an alcohol which contains three what?
The parts of the ears involved in balance are called what?
The sun’s heat can also be trapped in your home by using south facing windows and good what?
Red blood cells do not perform aerobic respiration, but they do perform what process that is nearly universal to organisms?
Late adulthood begins in the mid-60s and continues until?
The concentration of a substance is the quantity of solute present in a given quantity of ___________?
What is the study of rock strata called?
What is the particular sequence of amino acids in a longer chain called?
Stones, infections, and diabetes threaten the health and functioning of what paired organs?
What is the name of the outer layer of skin?
What is the major source of water vapor in the atmosphere?
The release of mature eggs that occurs at the midpoint of each cycle is called?
What are the three ways to control the transcription of an operon?
Peroxisomes carry out oxidation reactions that break down what acids?
The magnitude of the momentum vector is the product of what two properties?
Hydrostatic skeletons are well suited for life in what kind of environments?
How do prokaryotic organisms reproduce asexually?
Many species use their body shape and coloration to avoid what?
What property of ocean water increases rapidly as the water gets deeper?
Remember electrons are negatively charged, so ions with a positive charge have lost what?
What type of starch is used for long-term energy storage in animal cells?
What contracts to move food throughout the gastrointestinal tract?
A magnet can exert force on objects without touching them, as long as they are within what?
What field of science seeks to explain how traits are passed on from one generation to the next?
Saturated hydrocarbons get their name because they are saturated with what atoms?
What is the name of the black opening in the eye that lets light enter?
Enzymes in saliva help bread down and digest what?
What comes first in the life cycle of a plant?
Within the chloroplast, synthesis of what takes place in the fluid inside the inner membrane called the stroma?
When referring to genes, what term describes the property of having multiple phenotypic effects?
What are intervertebral discs made of?
What harmful light does ozone reduce in the upper atmospheres?
What device detects and measuresee earthquake waves?
While some climate regions have multiple layers, arid regions are poor for development of what?
Some plants open their leaves during the day to collect what?
What secretion initiates chemical digestion while also protecting the oral cavity?
What makes echinoderms force water into the feet and move forward?
Red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets are all produced where?
Fine-grained mud in the deep ocean comes from silts and clays brought from the land by?
Pseudopods are temporary extensions of what?
Ice cubes in cola cause the cola to lose what?
How are protists traditionally classified?
Coal is a solid hydrocarbon formed from what type of decaying material?
Many disciplines within the study of biology contribute to understanding how past and present life evolved over time; these disciplines together contribute to building, updating, and maintaining this?
A flow of one coulomb per second is called one ampere, which is a measure of what?
What might eventually happen to a species if it is unable to reproduce?
What do muscles need to contract?
What is considered to be a unique feature of echinoderms?
Noninfectious diseases can't be passed from one person to another. instead, these types of diseases are caused by factors such as environment, genetics and what?
What 'counting' instrument is used to measure radioactivity?
Often primary producers, what term describes species considered the “base” or “bedrock” of a community, having the greatest influence on its overall structure?
Hurricanes that form in the tropics are called what?
What types of flat maps show users changes in land elevation?
Sister chromatids separate as part of anaphase in what process?
Vertebrates evolved from primitive forms of which creature?
Another name for table salt is?
In iceland, the mid-atlantic ridge is above sea what?
The earth's atmosphere, climate, and living things are effected by what feature that covers more than 70 percent of earth's surface?
What is the nest of cell an egg rests in called?
The energy of a wave depends on time as well as what other property of the wave?
Genetic equilibrium occurs when what process doesn't exist within the population?
During meiosis, each parent synthesizes gametes that contain only half of their complement of what?
What is evolution that occurs over a long period of time called?
What is the plasma membrane formed by?
What is formed when an element gains one or more electrons?
What is the term for the slow wearing down of rocks on earth’s surface?
Lobsters are what kind of food source?
Helicopters store large amounts of rotational energy of what type in their blades?
What branch of science is the study of matter and energy?
Plants and algae maintain the atmosphere. during photosynthesis, they add oxygen and remove what?
Electric substations have what devices, which use electromagnetic induction to increase or decrease the voltage of the current?
By what process does oxygen enter the pores of flatworms?
The iconic gray mantle of the human brain, which appears to make up most of the mass of the brain, is called?
What kind of rocks form as an existing rock is altered by high temperature or pressure?
What kind of water are cattails adapted for with narrow, strap-like leaves?
What is the most abundant living thing on earth that can be found in almost any environment?
Oxidation does not necessarily require heating. which is the common and natural method of oxidation?
Toward the late stages of pregnancy, a drop in progesterone and stretching forces from the fetus lead to increasing uterine irritability and prompt labor. contractions serve to dilate the cervix and expel this?
Light bends when it passes in from what to what?
Photosynthesis uses solar energy, carbon dioxide, and water to produce energy-storing carbohydrates.what is produced as a waste product?
What is the basic unit of computer memory?
What is the first part of the large intestine, where wastes enter from the small intestine?
Burning fossil fuels produces air pollution and what?
Monosaccharides, particularly glucose, are major nutrients for what?
Covalent solids are formed by networks or chains of atoms or molecules held together by what?
In response to high blood osmolarity, which can occur during dehydration or following a very salty meal, the osmoreceptors signal the posterior pituitary to release this?
The grasp reflex in humans is an example of what kind of behavior?
Antibiotics can cure most infections that are caused by what?
Hydrocarbons are made up of carbon and what else?
Archaeal cell walls contain a variety of polysaccharides and proteins but lack what?
What are lipids' function in relation to nerves?
What's the name for the point reached at a ph of 7?
Crystallization separates mixtures based on differences in what, which usually increases with temperature?
Pure substances have a constant composition and can only be changed through what?
Which water from the equator mixes with cold water from the poles?
In order to determine its molecular formula, it is necessary to know what about the compound?
What is the term for much bigger evolutionary changes that result in new species?
What are the effects of light on plant morphology called?
In a magnet, what are the regions called that are the strongest?
What kind of muscle cells undergo twitch-type contractions with long refractory periods followed by brief relaxation periods, allowing the heart to fill with blood for the next cycle?
What is a factor in determining weight but not mass?
What occurs when two nonpolar liquids are mixed?
Although much of the heart's basic structure is complete by the end of the fifth week, what fetal structures remain until birth or shortly after?
Because sound waves must move through a medium, there are no sound waves in a what?
Bicarbonate is the second most abundant anion in the blood. its principal function is to maintain your body’s acid-base balance by being part of these?
What process involves two cell divisions and produces four haploid cells?
What happens to a chain of amino acids after it reaches a stop codon?
How many electrons can be accommodated in the first electron shell's orbital?
Species distributions are a consequence of both ecological and evolutionary what?
What is the name of the mineral that contains calcium, carbon and oxygen?
What medical emergency occurs when a blood clot blocks blood flow to part of the brain, causing death of brain cells?
What are the strongest magnets made?
What vessels supply blood to the myocardium and other components of the heart?
An endocrine disease usually involves the secretion of too much or not enough of what?
What is it called when a gene at one location (locus) alters the phenotypic expression of a gene at another locus?
Called the powerhouses of the cell, what organelles are the site of cellular energy production?
What is the name of the major sex hormone in females?
What is the smallest unit of a living thing?
What kind of metals have perplexing patterns of electron distribution that don’t always follow the electron filling rules?
The fact that water in a reservoir is elevated above the ground means that it has what kind of energy?
Rich in protein and nutrients, what abundant group of organisms is being touted as an important human dietary source?
In contrast to metals, electrical insulators are materials that conduct electricity poorly because their valence bands are what?
What model postulates that electrons orbit the nucleus at fixed energy levels?
In the case of the wheelbarrow, the output force or load is between the pivot and the what?
What type of electrons are attracted to the positive nucleus?
Present-day plants that have a complex vascular tissue system are called what kind of plants?
What tool, used to locate underwater objects, utilizes ultrasound in a way that is similar to echolocation?
What kind of competition often leads to extinction because the species that is less well adapted gets fewer of the resources that both species need?
A nephrologist studies and deals with diseases of what organ?
Where is the potential energy of a river the highest at?
What are the most numerous and diverse biochemical compounds?
Where are most plants firmly rooted?
What type of rain dissolves limestone and marble?
What are materials that have a low resistance to electrical current called?
What mammalian feature serves functions such as filtration and keeping the body warm?
Higher pressures increase the solubility of what?
What is an important level of organization in ecology and the unit of microevolution?
When hot water gently rises to the surface, it creates a what?
What is the final stage of aerobic respiration, when energy from the krebs cycle is transferred to atp?
What state of matter has a definite volume, but not a definite shape?
Blood leaves the left ventricle via the what?
What type of animal can be found on every continent except antarctica?
Though viruses are not considered living, they share two important traits with living organisms: they have genetic material and they can undergo what process?
What is our sun's next stage called?
What type of molecule is carbon dioxide (co2)?
Trimethylamine is one of the substances responsible for the what of spoiled fish?
Making ultrasonic clicks is a clever way that some moths respond to attacks by what flying mammals?
What do plants respond to in their environment?
Bone marrow is found inside many bones and produces what?
One species benefits while the host species is harmed in what type of relationship?
What is a compound in which all of the atoms are connected to one another by covalent bonds?
What kind of lakes form when volcanic eruptions create massive holes that fill with water?
The ovaries produce estradiol and progesterone, which cause secondary sex characteristics and prepare the body for?
Ions move through what to maintain electrical neutrality in the cell?
What are the messenger molecules of the endocrine system?
What do you call any substance that opposes coagulation?
What controls every aspect of plant growth and development to some degree?
Making a specific prediction based on a general principle is known as what type of reasoning?
Ripe fruits are usually red, orange, yellow, or what?
What are the lines of force in the electric field around a charged particle called?
An electric transformer connects two circuits with an iron core that becomes what?
What structure connects the pharynx to the trachea?
The resultant solution will contain the same amount of solute but a greater amount of what?
The thin scale-like or flat shape of what cells fits their primary function, to provide a smooth and protective surface?
During what phase of breathing does the pressure inside the lungs drops to below atmospheric pressure?
What type of climates is malaria commonly found in?
Plants that live in the desert are called?
Dolphins are what type of animal?
What is the energy of moving matter?
The two parts of photosynthesis photosynthesis takes place in two stages: the light-dependent reactions and which cycle?
In an atom, what two major types of particles are located in the nucleus?
What is the first part of the large intestine, where wastes enter from the small intestine?
Each pollen grain has two coverings: the exine (thicker, outer layer) and the what?
In stars like our sun, hydrogen atoms join together to create what?
How do bacteria reproduce?
What sort of gas is found in balloons and blimps, and is used to make them float in the sky?
What color is pyrite?
Planting a row of trees around a field or erecting a fence on a sand dune helps prevent what form of erosion?
What structure connects the fetus to the placenta, allowing the exchange of gases?
Glass, rubber, and plastics are examples of which type of solids?
What is the process bacteria use to break down chemicals into food?
A fully developed placenta is made up of a large mass of what?
What is an element that tend to be malleable?
As a diver descends, the increase in pressure causes the body’s air pockets in the ears and lungs to do what?
Many deleterious alleles have such severe effects that a homozygous embryo spontaneously aborts long before what?
What kind of reaction, in general, keeps stars shining?
What is the most important factor determining soil type?
What are the structural and functional units of the kidney called?
What structure, containing many internal membranes, is the site of photosynthesis?
During the day, what type of energy is transferred from the air over the land to the air over the water?
Which nerve carries electrical signals from the rods and cones to the brain?
What is the only thing that can change an asteroid?
Radon is inert and generally unreactive because it is which kind of gas?
What are the two ways animals can manage their internal environment?
What may the jointed appendages of arthropods be used for?
A sperm cell and an egg cell fuse to become what?
The muscles in arteries and veins that are largely responsible for regulation of blood pressure are known as what type?
An inversion may result when what kind of mass moves over cold ground?
The eardrum is part of what part of the ear?
What is never lost and just changes forms?
What is the term for a mixture that varies in its composition?
What are the "building blocks" of proteins?
What is responsible for our sense of balance?
What technology do scientists use to create models?
What essential molecules can be harmful if ingested in large amounts, especially if they contain saturated fatty acids from animal foods?
What are two ways cnidarians are able to reproduce?
In what human organ system would you find live e. coli bacteria?
What carries blood away from the heart?
What is the most important characteristic of a homogeneous mixture?
The domain geometry for a molecule with four electron pairs is called what?
What is the gel-like material between the cell membrane and the nucleus called?
Like mammals and birds, and unlike other reptiles, crocodiles have how many chambers in their heart?
What is the phenomenon in which light and sound waves become circular at the point source of a barrier?
What is the name of the relatively large gland in the neck that secretes thyroxin?
Amplification that occurs in which cells often requires signal transduction pathways involving second messengers?
As adults, amphibians are completely _______, meaning they feed on other animals.
Approximately how many billion years ago did our solar system begin?
A type of what organism causes ergot, a disease that impacts crops directly and has more devastating effects on animals?
Plant-like protists are commonly called what?
Which cell gives rise to all cells of the human body?
What term describes the long tube that connects the mouth to the anus?
In some ways, a collection of gas molecules represents the simplest form of what?
Are vesicles larger or smaller than vacuoles?
The duodenum is the first and the shortest part of what, and is where most chemical digestion takes place?
Which system consists of all the bones of the body?
What is rusting an example of?
What molecule consists of two atoms of hydrogen and one atom of oxygen?
All compounds, whether ionic or covalent, must be what?
Which  is the most common sti (sexually transmitted infection) in the united states?
What do all chemical reactions need to get started?
What organ does asthma periodically cause to narrow?
Silver, gold, and copper all conduct what very well?
Pakicetus and rodhocetus are considered to be ancestors of modern what?
Chemical and physical changes in a system may be accompanied by an increase or a decrease in the disorder of the system, corresponding to an increase or decrease in what?
What is the only way to completely avoid stis?
What is an ion that is in common to both salts in a solution?
Prokaryotes and the nitrogen cycle nitrogen is a very important element for life because it is part of proteins and this?
What property is a measure of the average kinetic energy of molecules?
A measure of the disorder of a system is called its what?
What influence does the  horizontal motion of a projectile have on free fall?
Larger animals expend more of what to achieve locomotion?
Subshells are subdivisions of what groupings of electrons that can be found surrounding atoms?
The number of moles of solute in 1 kg of solvent is defined as what?
What is the name for the pores in leaves that allow a plant to retain water or exchange gases?
What is part of a cycle that holds an element or water for a long period of time called?
What theory states that all organisms are made up of one or more cells?
What does rearrangements of chromosomes contribute to the emergence of?
In the universe as a whole, what is the most common element?
What are substances that cannot be broken down into simpler substances with different properties called?
What gas, that is dissolved in solution, is used in carbonated beverages?
Fluoride ion is widely used in water supplies to help prevent what?
Amino acids are joined together to form a chain at what molecular structure?
What is the name of the science that studies matter and the changes material substances undergo?
Which process changes rocks by heat and pressure?
What is defined as an antigen that causes an allergy?
What can be linked together to form disaccharides or polysaccharides?
What were the first living things to evolve on earth?
All members of a species living together form a what?
What type of disturbance do even dominant plants depend on in many biomes?
What type of behaviors are triggered by pheromones in moths?
What do organisms use to store energy?
The scientific practice of classifying organisms is also known as what?
What is the type of cell division that produces gametes?
The force applied to an object is called?
What is the largest mineral group, comprising over 90% of earth's crust?
Sound navigation and ranging is an acronym for what, which is used to locate underwater objects such as submarines?
What is the term for the difference in elevation between two contour lines?
The same reaction regenerates pyruvate, which is transported to which cells?
What large carboxylic acid with three ionizable hydrogen atoms gives some fruits a sour or tart flavor?
How does sap get to the tops of tall trees?
Each megasporangium has a single functional one of what?
Somatosensation refers to what of the five senses?
Respiratory distress syndrome results from insufficient production of what?
Redox reactions can always be recognized by a change in what number of two of the atoms in the reaction?
In humans, the anus is attached to what kind of intestine?
What does interspecific competition between species often lead to?
Radioactive decay can give off energy and what else?
What is the condition in which distant objects are seen clearly, but nearby objects appear blurry?
What novelties can also arise when structures that originally played one role gradually acquire a different one?
What is a gap in rock layers called?
Bacteria are often used to make cheese from what?
Why are atoms of metals good conductors of electricity?
What is the basic unit of an organism called?
All the blood in the human body is filtered about 60 times a day by what?
What happens to the energy levels of electrons as they are closer to the nucleus?
What is the term for the blockage of an artery by the buildup of fatty plaques?
In what type of reproduction do parents of different sexes mate to produce offspring?
Insulin and glucagon help keep blood glucose levels in the normal range because of what type of effects?
What phenomenon has severe consequences on both natural and man-made objects, including killing trees and degrading marble statues?
What alloy is made from copper and zinc?
The accumulation of what cells begin the development of the vertebral column and thoracic cage?
What are terrestrial biomes determined by?
What protects reptiles from injury and loss of water?
What are the different feeding positions in a food chain or web called?
What is the joint where the pelvic girdle and leg come together?
Snails, scallops, and squids are examples of invertebrates called what?
Synthesis, decomposition, replacement, and combustion are all types of what reaction?
What are the devices placed in electric circuits where charge can build up, which store energy when charged and release it when they discharge?
What is the hinged structure attached to the cranium that allows an animal to grasp and tear its food?
The svedberg unit is a measure of the rate of what, which is tested in a centrifuge?
Muscles and skin are examples of what, consisting of specialized cells?
When do cells acquire different identities in an ordered spatial arrangement?
What structures sweep laterally, hugging the pelvic walls, then turn medially and pierce the bladder wall obliquely?
What was the last supercontinent on earth?
When conditions deteriorate, hydras can reproduce sexually, forming resistant zygotes that remain dormant until when?
Because collisions are ______, energy can be transferred between molecules during them.
What is the tendency of an object to remain at rest or remain in motion called?
The pituitary gland is called the “master gland” of what system?
What links together to form long polymeric chains?
What type of electrons does carbon have?
What do doctors call farsightedness or the inability to see close objects clearly?
What type of simple inheritance is too simplified to explain most human traits?
The sun emits energy in the form of what?
The number of electrons in the outer energy level determines what property of nonmetals?
Acids are the opposites of what?
What is the process in which gases are exchanged between the body and the outside air?
Steam consists of what common and essential element in its gaseous phase?
The capsid is made from the what that are encoded by viral genes within their genome?
Methane, ethane, and propane are three of the smallest what?
The number of neutrons and electrons may vary or change in an atom. what happens to the number of protons?
In biological augmentation, ecologists use what to add essential materials to ecosystems?
What kind of interference is observed when the paths differ by a whole wavelength, and the waves arrive in phase?
What are mudskipper fish able to do in short distances?
What is the major cause of disease in agricultural crops?
What type of reproduction occurs in almost all fungi?
What protists absorb food molecules across their cell membranes?
How do dogs lose body heat?
The electron transport chains are located on the inner membrane of which organelle?
What happens to growth of plants and bacteria in warmer regions?
Electromagnetic waves are generally caused by magnetic fields doing what (or moving in what way)?
Exposure to what can increase the amount of pigment in the skin and make it appear darker?
Most of the trash in the ocean is made of what material?
What is the name of the glands that produce milk in female mammals ?
The conductive cells within the heart establish the heart rate and transmit it through the what?
What is the opening in the front of the eye?
Binary transition-metal compounds, such as the oxides and sulfides, are usually written with idealized what?
What disease refers to the dangerous buildup of fatty materials in blood vessels?
Which nerve directly stimulates the contraction of skeletal muscles in the pharynx and larynx to contribute to the swallowing and speech functions?
What do we call coiled structures made of dna and proteins?
Energy comes in discrete packages called what?
Which type of cell can carry out more functions, eukaryotic cells or prokaryotic cells?
When vascular disease causes stiffening of arteries, compliance is reduced and resistance to blood flow is increased. the result is more turbulence, higher pressure within the vessel, and reduced blood flow. this increases the work of this?
Animals that do not have internal control of their body temperature are called what?
What do optical fibres look like?
Genetics is the branch of biology that focuses on heredity in what?
What type of protein is a protein molecule that is attached to, or associated with the membrane of a cell or an organelle?
What is defined as the ability to cause changes in matter?
What group of animals has permeable skin that makes them vulnerable to pollution?
A period is a horizontal row of the what?
What term refers to any method of removing carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and storing it in another form?
What system protects the body from worms, germs, and other agents of harm?
Most members of the animal kingdom have differentiated tissues of four main classes—nervous, muscular, connective, and this?
Which ancient fish has just two living species and is at risk of extinction?
A decline in blood flow to what organs stimulates release of the enzyme renin, in turn stimulating the reabsorption of sodium and water?
What common air pollutant is characterized by its sharp odor and often triggers asthma attacks?
In addition to a nucleus what do eukaryotic cells have?
What term is used to describe a cross between two individuals that have different traits?
What also happens when people feel anxious and breathe too fast?
Which two systems together provide support to the body and allow for movement?
The chromosomes that have a mixture of maternal and paternal sequence are called what?
Different types of home heating systems all function by producing what type of energy?
Nutrients the body needs in relatively large amounts are called what?
Which property changes when a glass breaks?
What do you call large, y-shaped proteins that recognize and bind to antigens?
What is the process by which plants make their own food?
In amniotes that lay eggs, the shell of the egg provides protection for the developing embryo while being permeable enough to allow for the exchange of carbon dioxide and this?
What term is used to describe viruses that live in a dormant state inside the body?
What is the main component of phytoplankton?
Compounds that contain mainly the elements carbon and hydrogen are called what kind of compounds?
What type of diagnosis happens before a baby is born?
Unlike nuclear fission, which involves dangerous radioisotopes, nuclear fusion involves what two harmless elements?
What is another environmental benefit of conserving resources?
The bright color of poison dart frogs serves what purpose?
What consist of chains of small molecules called nucleotides?
Atmospheric pressure can be measured with what tool?
What kind of charge do electrons have?
What are lipids that contain phosphorus called?
How many chambers does the stomach of a ruminant have?
What states that chemical reactions occur when atoms, ions, or molecules collide?
Biological macromolecules are organic, which means that they must contain what?
What do you call the membrane lining the back of the eye?
Lacking blood vessels, nerve endings, or glands, the epidermis is the outer layer of what?
The deepest region of the adrenal cortex is the zona reticularis, which produces small amounts of a class of steroid sex hormones called what?
All living things maintain a stable internal environment through what process?
Tropical rainforests are an example of a climate that occurs near what?
What changes the chemical composition of a substance and can only occur through a chemical reaction?
What term is used to describe the way that animals interact with each other or their environment?
What kind of bees are most adult bees in a hive?
In most animals, the circulatory system is used to transport blood through the what?
In sexually reproducing organisms, parents pass a copy of each type of what to their offspring by producing gametes?
At transform plate boundaries, two plates move in which directions?
The voltages generated at a power plant are stepped up by what passive devices, which then reduce voltage to a safe level at the point of use?
What is the term for the dark brown or black coating found on exposed desert rocks, which is formed of iron and manganese oxides?
What two ways may catalyst be classified?
What phylum has the highest number of species on earth?
The speed of a wave is a product of its wavelength and what else?
What type of gas are stars made up of?
What are one of the most abundant organic molecules in living systems and have the most diverse range of functions of all macromolecules?
A geiger counter is used for detecting what?
All species have evolved a pattern of living, called a life history strategy, in which they partition energy for growth, maintenance, and what?
What are the most diverse plants on earth?
What is the second line of defense?
What is the term for when organisms need other organisms to survive?
What  is an organic compound that is made up of only carbon and hydrogen?
Bile salts produced by the liver assist in breaking apart what kind of fats?
Where does most of the sound we hear travel through?
A reptile's what doesn't generate enough energy to keep their body temperature stable?
Bar, circle, and line are examples of what kind of data visualization?
What is the first phase of mitosis?
What term means an area where two closely related species continue to interact and reproduce?
Fungi may have both asexual and sexual stages of what?
Geysers erupt because what boiling hot substance is trapped beneath their surface?
About one-third of the human cerebral cortex is dedicated to analyzing and perceiving information related to what sense?
Fungus-like protists are what kind of feeders?
What is the process in which many new species evolve in a short period of time to fill available niches called?
After fertilization, how many cells does a zygote form into?
Which common oxidizing agent can be used to oxidize alcohols?
What are gemstones known as when light cannot pass through them?
In biology, a relationship that benefits both entities is known as what?
Some animals prepare for the long winters by storing food and going dormant, a behavior called what?
Biochemical reactions are optimal at physiological temperatures because many what lose function at lower and higher temperatures?
What is the attachment of ducklings to their mother an example of?
All chordates are deuterostomes possessing a what?
In vascular plants, the sporophyte generation is what?
The combined gradient that affects an ion includes its concentration gradient and its what?
What is the first cell of a new organism?
What part of the cell in plants and algae does photosynthesis take place?
Exemplified by canada and alaska, what kind of climate has cool, short summers and long, cold winters, little precipitation, and abundant conifers?
What are the only organelles that prokaryotic cells have?
What is the name of the cloud where most long-period comets come from?
Different feeding "positions" in a food chain or web are associated with what kinds of levels?
Ionic compound atoms of various elements gain or lose electrons to?
Sedimentary rocks form in what kind of layers?
Plants obtain the molecules for cellular function though what?
The group of plants that can make their own food from inorganic raw materials in the presence of sunlight are referred to as what?
What type of disorders are caused by mutations in genes or abnormal numbers of chromosomes?
What is the measure of sound intensity levels?
What is the temperature at which a substance freezes known as?
Blood from what organs enters the left atrium of the heart?
The farther an area is from the equator, what happens to the temperature?
What sort of issues can be determined by looking for certain particles in amniotic fluid?
The lunar landscape is covered by craters caused by what?
What is the name for the line dividing the earth's hemispheres?
Dependent on the frequency of sound waves, what term described how high or low a sound seems to a listener?
Solar cells convert the energy in sunlight to what type of energy?
What occurs when a parent cell splits into two identical daughter cells of the same size?
A group of individuals that consists of genetically related individuals that can breed to produce fertile young is known as what?
What is the most dangerous type of radiation?
What is the result when two monosaccharides are bound together?
What are the two major atmospheric gases?
What do you call the strands of dna wrapped around proteins, which are located inside the nucleus?
Land could not be colonized by other organisms until what became established?
What are bacteria that stain purple are called?
When the bud is fully developed, it breaks away from the parent cell and forms a new what?
Arrows and cannon balls are examples of objects with what kind of motion?
What is the sugar that the cells of living things use for energy?
What is the most important muscle involved in the process of breathing?
What is the basic characteristic of monoprotic bases?
What do we call a device used to store electric charge?
Has this ever happened to you? you walk across a carpet, reach out to touch a metal doorknob, and get an unpleasant electric shock? .the reason you get a shock is because of what?
What planet is closest to our sun?
The ordovician-silurian extinction event is the first recorded mass extinction and the second largest. during this period, about what percent of marine species went extinct?
A small molecule that binds to a larger molecule is known as a?
What process that begins in utero during fetal development and continues on into adolescence involves closing of the skull?
What traits are those that are inherited unchanged in a hybridization?
What is required to break down and build up molecules and to transport molecules across plasma membranes?
The three main rock types are igneous, metamorphic, and what?
What body part does encephalitis attack?
What type of reproduction takes place when an animal simply divides into two parts?
Winds moving air masses causes what?
How many orders of magnitudes bigger is the electric force?
What is the term for any way that an animal interacts with other animals or the environment?
A mushroom is only a specialised reproductive part of the whole fungus. the main part of the fungi is underground in a whole web of hyphae, called this?
Most oxygen in blood is bound to a protein called what, and carried to the tissues?
What do we call the only light that people can see?
Carnivores are animals that eat other animals. the word carnivore is derived from latin and literally means this?
What term describes the sequential appearance and disappearance of species in a community over time after a severe disturbance?
What can water's high surface tension be attributed t?
What  supports life, and is also needed for the water cycle and weather?
The zoospores develop into haploid, multicellular male and female gametophytes, which produce?
Reducing the number of molecules in a rigid container causes what to decrease?
What causes a lot of geological activity on the earth?
The fuel that burns in a combustion reaction in many fossil fuels such as natural gas that consists of carbon hydrogen is known as what?
What describes a combination of two or more substances, each of which maintains its own chemical identity?
Sodium-potassium pumps help nerve cells establish a voltage across their what?
Tin is oxidized at the anode, while silver ion is reduced at?
Adding a solute does what to the boiling point of a pure solvent?
Illnesses caused by bacteria in food are commonly known as what?
Most bacteria may be placed into one of three groups based on their response to gaseous?
More uv rays reach the ground due to a decrease in what layer in the stratosphere?
Two species that share what cannot coexist in a community?
In a wheel and axle, when force is applied either to the wheel or axle, what aspect of the force does not change?
What can be used to determine the mass of a quantity of material?
The thick skin, found only on the palms of the hands and the soles of the feet, has an extra what?
What effect does tamiflu have on viruses and cells?
What is the main ingredient of mothballs?
What is the column of hot rock that continuously brings hot rock up from the mantle toward the crust?
What color light is actually the absence of electromagnetic waves in the visible spectrum, for humans?
What type of seeds come from plants that were traditionally grown in human populations, as opposed to the seeds used for large-scale agricultural production?
What is the organic material that comes from plants and animals that were recently living called?
What is the simplest form of matter that has a unique set of properties?
At least 20 percent of the world’s people do not have a ready supply of what?
What simple machine consists of two connected rings or cylinders, one inside the other, which both turn in the same direction around a single center point?
Birds have air sacs that store inhaled air and push it into their what?
What is in the soil that causes mars to look red?
Convection generally involves the transfer of what type of energy?
What is the term for a push or a pull on an object?
What term is used to describe the process of removing wastes and excess water from the body?
Which disease occurs when there is not enough hemoglobin in the blood?
In what state of matter are particles rigidly fixed in space and held tightly to neighboring particles?
What is a network solid and consists of carbon atoms covalently bonded to one another in a repeating three-dimensional pattern?
Linnaeus developed binomial nomenclature, which means each organism is assigned what?
What do we call the mathematical field of study credited to french mathematician-philosopher rene descartes?
Where do skeletal muscles usually attach?
What do the cells in the front of a volvox typically develop to help swim towards light?
What bodily system handles taking in oxygen, getting rid of carbon dioxide, aiding in speech production and sensing odors?
The atom often (but not always) turns into a different what during the decay process?
Females are not influenced by the male sex hormone testosterone during embryonic development because they lack what?
Pressure relationships inspiration (or inhalation) and expiration (or exhalation) are dependent on the differences in pressure between the atmosphere and these?
Female monotremes share what external opening with reptiles and birds?
Collisions between hydrogen atoms demonstrate one form of what?
Fluid-filled thylakoids are the site of glucose production in the second stage of what process?
What are the basic units of structure and function in living organisms?
What concept can be applied to biology, because the structure of an organism, or part of an organism, depends on its function?
Is sweat an exocrine or endocrine substance?
Nuclei with even numbers of protons, neutrons, or both are more likely to be this?
Some prokaryotes form spores for survival called what?
What is the liquid inside the central vacuole called?
Cancer cells take up glucose for what reason?
Birds and insects perform what function for flowering plants?
Most carcinogens produce mutations in genes that control what?
What type of equations allows calculation of the wavelength of any moving object?
Each new horizontal row of the periodic table corresponds to the beginning of a new period because a new principal energy level is being filled with what?
What kind of energy is specifically defined as the energy that is available to do work?
Only a small percent of earth's water is what type, as opposed to saltwater?
The kidneys work with the urinary system to remove what?
What is asexual reproduction in which an egg develops without being fertilized called?
What does water vapor in the atmosphere cool and condense into?
Carbon-14 dating is a method of what kind of dating?
Friendly bacteria live mostly in the large intestine and part of the small intestine, because what organ is too acidic?
The addition of heat changes liquid water to what?
What is the most widely accepted theory explaining how muscle fibers contract?
Power in electricity is the voltage multiplied by what?
What are the vertical columns of similar chemical properties on the periodic table?
What forms the changing shapes of sand dunes?
What is the process in which one cell divides to form two new cells called?
What reaction is considered the reverse of photosynthesis?
What are composed of an oxygen atom that forms single bonds with two carbon atoms?
Where do cells come from?
What are the female gametes that form in the ovaries?
What are plants in the diploid generation called?
Through what do moving particles transfer thermal energy?
What is the name for the water-splitting step of photosynthesis?
The entropy change is positive as the solid state changes into which state?
The process when heat is released is referred to as what?
What is a large space that helps the organism digest & move nutrients around the cnidarian body?
An infection of the brain is called?
The converging of continental plates can form what kind of geological feature?
Mammals generally lack a cloaca and have a separate opening for the what?
Chordates are defined by a set of four characteristics that are shared by these animals at some point during their?
What is produced during the light reactions in photosynthesis?
Nerves of the hands, arms, feet, legs, and trunk are part of what system?
Generally, momentum implies a tendency to continue on course—to move in the same direction—and is associated with great mass and speed. momentum, like energy, is important because it is what?
Which types of muscles cause bones to move when they retract?
Which is the final step of cell division?
What are xylem and phloem responsible for transporting to the cells of leaves?
What kind of cell is a cell with two chromosomes?
Which term literally means 'spore in a vessel'?
Human culture is related to evolutionary theory in the discipline of what?
Which forces hold particles together in more ordered states?
What is the movement of muscle in the digestive system called?
Smoking increases the risk of cancer from what radioactive gas that can also be detected with a test kit for your home?
What is the main function of the cardiovascular system?
When something is described as "hydrophilic", you can determine something about how it interacts with what?
What human traits are controlled by more than one gene?
Most chromosomal disorders involve which chromosomes?
Carbonic anhydrase plays what role to achieve a variety of results involving different organs?
What is it called when minerals replace the organic material to create fossils?
Smaller sized galaxies are known as what?
What is the name of the supportive structed that helps move a worm's muscles?
What type of transport occurs when substances cross the plasma membrane without any input of energy from the cell?
A mold is an imprint of an organism left in what?
Particles of different densities exert different amounts of what?
Plants generally transport carbohydrates from leaves to roots and other nonphotosynthetic organs in the form of what?
Monocots and eudicots differ in what type of a leaf's tissue?
What kind of reproduction, in general, relies on sets of cells that are precursors for eggs and sperm?
A lens of what shape causes rays of light to diverge, or spread apart, as they pass through it?
What is the complex network of nervous tissue that carries electrical messages throughout the body?
Crowding and resource limitation can have a profound effect on the rate of what?
X and y are the labels of what specialized human chromosomes?
Isotopes are named for their number of ______ plus neutrons?
Because fungi feed on decaying and dead matter, they play what important role by releasing essential elements into the environment?
If the temperature of a gas sample is decreased, what happens to the volume?
Most food chains and webs have a maximum of how many trophic levels?
What refers to the development and nourishment of an embryo within the mother’s body but not inside an egg?
What kind of anaerobe is yeast?
Bones are far from static, or unchanging. instead, they are what?
After entering the circulation, approximately one-third of platelets migrate to what organ for storage, to be released in response to any blood vessel rupture?
What causes a small scrap of paper placed on top of the water droplet to float , although the object is denser (heavier) than the water?
What is the term for a structure composed of more than one type of tissue?
What is the pair of bean-shaped organs situated just above the waist?
What part of a bird is adapted for the food it eats?
What is the inner cell mass formed by the cells of the blastocyst called?
What does the distribution of darts on a dartboard shows the difference between?
What gas do the lungs give up as they take in oxygen?
What is the term for the last stage of life before adulthood?
Breaking of weak bonds, which tend to form between positive and negative charges, does not require much what?
What two organs secrete fluids that aid in digestion?
When light meets matter, it may be reflected, transmitted, or what?
When a sperm penetrates the egg, it triggers the egg to complete what?
What chromosome determines the sex of an organism?
In contrast to precision, this term means how close a measurement is to the correct or accepted value of the quantity being measured?
Where is most of the cell's dna contained?
The four major classes of biological macromolecules include carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, and what else?
What protects you from pathogens and keeps you healthy?
Although they differ vastly in hardness, pencil lead and diamonds both contain what element?
The majority of salamanders lack what organs, so respiration occurs through the skin or through external gills?
Crabs, lobsters, shrimp, krill, and woodlice are all?
What makes water change to a different state?
What is a hydrocarbon in which there are only single covalent bonds?
What is the measure of the amount of space occupied by an object?
The energy that enters the chloroplasts as sunlight becomes stored as what type of energy in organic compounds?
Whose rules are too simple to explain the inheritance of human height?
The fertilized egg that sexually reproducing organisms begin life as is known as what?
People with red hair usually have what type of skin?
What provides the shape of a cell?
Competition between members of the same species is known as?
One molecule of carbon dioxide consists of 1 atom of carbon and 2 atoms of what element?
What facilitates the diffusion of ions across a membrane?
What kind of fibers are used to transport telephone and television signals?
In what century was the microscope invented?
What do the hair cells in the cochlea release when they bend?
Receptor clustering happens when what binds to the receptors?
What makes toenails and fingernails hard?
Producing sperm and secreting testosterone are the main functions of what system?
Biochemistry is the study of the chemistry of?
Color, temperature, and solubility are examples of what type of property?
What is the term for nutrients the body needs in relatively small amounts, including vitamins and minerals?
What do corals secrete that builds up to become a coral reef?
Solid balls of water and dust falling from the sky are known as?
What brain structure is important in recognizing and recalling emotions?
Oils are liquid lipids that plants use for storage of what?
Where do the majority of arthropods live?
Protein chains containing 10 or fewer amino acids are usually referred to as what?
The primary site of carbohydrate digestion is in the?
A potential cause of extinction, competition between different species is called what?
Within the microsporangium, the microspore mother cell divides by meiosis to give rise to four microspores, each of which will ultimately form this?
What is regulated by the reticular formation?
All living things are capable of what process whereby living things give rise to offspring?
What is the common name of mixtures of hydrocarbons that formed over millions of years from the remains of dead organisms?
What branch of science is the study of the universe, not of cosmetics?
Which blood leaves the placenta through veins leading back to the fetus?
Matter can be classified on the basis of how what interacts with it?
What scale is used to succinctly communicate the acidity or basicity of a solution?
Hormones often regulate what through antagonistic functions?
The potential of what can be used to measure the ph of a solution?
What theory says atoms of matter are in constant random motion?
The laws of what field of science apply to galaxies and atoms, an indication of the underlying unity in the universe?
What makes soil and rock particles move gradually down the slope during each thaw?
What is the protist kingdom sometimes called as?
The constant "c" can be specifically used to represent the (extremely fast) speed of what?
What are non-renewable sources of energy that produce environmental damage?
What causes cancer cells to avoid elimination and continue to multiply?
Electronegativity is a qualitative measure of how much an atom attracts what in a covalent bond?
Depending on how matter interacts with light, it can be classified as transparent, translucent, or what?
Kidneys, large intestine, liver, skin, and lungs comprise which system?
What group of single-celled organisms lacking a nucleus comprises the most numerous organisms on earth?
Diamond, graphite and fullerene are examples of what form of carbon?
A hot-water heating system uses what type of energy to heat water?
What captures carbon dioxide as it is emitted by a power plant before it enters the atmosphere?
What type of oil is being explored to replace petroleum products in lubricants?
What advantage equals the distance of effort divided by the distance the object moves and is also equal to the output force divided by the input force?
What is the outer layer of skin, consisting almost entirely of epithelial cells?
What is the accumulated total of all the biochemical reactions occurring in a cell or organism called?
When fertilizer ends up in bodies of water, the added nutrients cause excessive growth referred to as what, which can render the water unfit for human consumption or recreation?
What part of the cell controls what enters and leaves?
Where does the development of a fetus take place?
What is the critical factor for the survival of segmented worms?
During sexual arousal what does the clitoris, vagina, and labia minora all engorge with?
What is another term for joules per second?
What is extracted from rock by heap leaching, flotation, or smelting?
What tool is useful for studying the ocean floor because the environment is remote and underwater?
What is the functional unit of the kidney which actively filters blood and generates urine?
Name two candidates for the original sources of viral genomes.
What do you call a substance that is not an acid or a base?
An amide bond joining two amino acid units is called a what?
What is the name for spherical groups of old stars held tightly together by gravity?
What type of state do most fungi spend their lives in?
What is the white solid that forms on corroded battery terminals?
What does the decomposition of dead organisms and organic waste release into the atmosphere, soil, or ocean?
In which process do two light nuclei combine to produce a heavier nucleus and great energy?
What results from the consumption of pathogenic bacteria, viruses, or parasites that contaminate food?
What type of physical properties of a substance do not depend on amount?
A wave that consists of vibrating electric and magnetic fields is called what?
Both endocytosis and ______ are active transport processes.
What type of roads and parking lots prevent rainwater from soaking into the ground?
What type of acid is often used as a preservative for acidic foods such as fruit juices?
Vascular plants evolved what basic structures to collect sunlight?
The entropy is decreasing because a gas is becoming a what?
Sucrose does not undergo reactions that are typical of aldehydes and ketones, therefore it is a nonreducing what?
An electric stove changes electric current to what form of energy?
Mammals are endothermic vertebrates that have four limbs and produce what type of eggs?
Which group of metals in the periodic table include elements such as sodium and potassium?
What is the term for force that opposes motion between any touching surfaces?
Most animals are in which clade?
What system carries nerve impulses to internal organs, controlling activities that are not under your control, such as sweating and digesting food?
What are invertebrate chordates that retain all four defining chordate traits as adults called?
What has traditionally been defined as a force of attraction between two masses?
What members of an ecosystem food chain take in food by eating producers or other living things?
What are small organelles and are the site of protein synthesis?
Lungs, pharynx, larynx, trachea, and bronchi are part of which system?
What is necessary for growth and energy?
Bryophyta is the formal taxonomic name for the phylum that consists solely of what?
In humans, how many chromosomes does each somatic cell have?
Like mitochondria, plastids contain their own what?
Terrestrial and aquatic are the two basic categories of what, on earth?
When dissolved in water, what do strong acids transfer to the solvent completely?
On the atomic level, the dissolution of an ionic compound occurs when water interacts with the what in the crystal lattice?
What is one method to observe nebulae?
When alternating primary current passes through coil p, it does what to the iron core?
What state of matter exists if particles do not have enough kinetic energy to overcome the force of attraction between them?
What is the“packet” of energy called that the nucleus emits during gamma decay?
The movement of molten metal in earth's outer core creates?
Mechanical churning of food in what organ serves to further break it apart and expose more of its surface area to digestive juices, creating an acidic “soup” called chyme?
A constant and plentiful supply of oxygen is required in order to maintain a high rate of what?
Organisms interact with each other and what else?
What is the center of an earthquake called?
Calvin cycle reactions can be organized into three basic stages: fixation, reduction, and this?
What type of cells are arranged into tightly packed sheaths around the veins of the leaf?
How are the number of moles of carbon dioxide gas calculated?
What is the name of the blood protein that carries oxygen from the lungs to the body's assorted tissues?
The sun and many other light sources produce waves that are randomly this?
Each vertebral vein also flows into which vein?
Almost all plants make food through what process?
What did darwin call the evolutionary concept of change in populations over generations?
Surprisingly, where would you find the earth’s tallest mountains and deepest canyons?
The part of the shadow in which light is completely blocked is called what?
What is the name of the period of transition between the beginning of puberty and adulthood?
The formula unit of sodium chloride dissociates into one sodium ion and one?
Fibrous root systems have many small branching roots called what?
A system of glands secretes what chemical messenger molecules into the blood?
In eukaryotic cells, molecules such as enzymes are usually compartmentalized into different what?
What does the stable form of sulfur at room temperature contain?
What term means the amount of a substance required to form a saturated solution in a given amount of solvent at a specified temperature?
What bone forms the upper jaw and supports the upper teeth?
What does increasing a solute's temperature do?
What are the pyramid-shaped, paired organs that are connected to the trachea by the right and left bronchi?
The global biosphere includes all areas of what?
Atomic orbitals from different atoms overlap to form what?
Particulates cause lung diseases. they can also increase the risk of heart disease and the number of what?
What  reinforces the thin walls of the right ventricle and plays a crucial role in cardiac conduction?
What kind of radiation is observed in honeycreeper birds?
What do we call the worldwide radio-navigation system formed from a constellation of 24 satellites and their ground stations?
What substance can be eroded by wind or water?
What unit of the nervous system consists of a cell body, dendrites, and axon?
What are small planets in our solar system called?
What is electrons in the highest occupied principal energy level of an atom called?
Pacemaker cells stimulate the spontaneous contraction of cardiac muscle as a functional unit, called a what?
A mineral’s crystal shape is determined by the way what objects are arranged?
Unlike prokaryotes, eukaryotes have a what?
What term is used to describe major changes in the genetic material?
What type of rocks form when sediments are compacted and cemented together?
Processes in which matter changes between liquid and solid states are freezing and?
Abrasion is a process of what type of weathering?
Mendel’s observation of pea plants also included many crosses that involved multiple traits, which prompted him to formulate the principle of this?
The skull consists of cranial bones and what other type of bones?
Insects are arthropods in which class?
What is the tail bone an example of?
What is the intersection point of the critical temperature and the critical pressure called?
Nuclear power plants produce electricity through what?
When the body goes into survival mode, it's first priority is to produce enough of which substance for the brain?
What do we consider the basic building blocks of life?
Which law describes the angle at which the reflected rays leave the surface is equal to the angle at which the incident rays strike the surface?
What major pigment in the photosynthetic system is based on a complex molecule and gives plants their green color?
If heat is released by the system into the surroundings, a chemical reaction or physical change is called what?
A hydrostatic skeleton is a skeleton formed by a fluid-filled compartment within the body, called what?
Sharks are an example of an animal with sharp vision that is nonetheless unable to distinguish what?
What performance-enhancing drugs are synthetic versions of the male sex hormone, testosterone?
What bonds cause water to have a high boiling point, leaving most water on earth in a liquid state rather than in a gaseous state?
Each root is made of dermal, ground, and what type of tissue?
What is the measure of the change in velocity of a moving object called?
What is the name for medical doctors that specialize in the diagnosis and treatment of diseases of the heart?
Any place at which two bones are joined is called a what?
In mammals, hair or fur help conserve bodily what?
Echinoderms are marine organisms that make up which phylum?
What kind of membrane do prokaryotic cells have?
What is the name of the cell that results when a sperm nucleus fuses with a egg nucleus?
What makes a complete orbit around the earth once every 29 1/2 days?
What general property of an earthquake is used to describe its relative strength?
What is a three dimensional snycline?
Rather than being dead, dry, and brittle, what support structures of the human body consist of living tissues and are supplied with blood and nerves?
The entire range of light that can be seen by the human eye without aid is known as what kind of light?
An endocrine disease usually involves the secretion of too much or not enough hormone by which gland?
What are the four well-known states of matter?
What is the term for plants that produce flowers and fruit?
Why did people stop adding lead to gasoline?
Osseous tissue is the tissue that makes up what?
What is the initial stage of  scienetific investigations?
The radiation exposure is determined by the number of what times the quality factor of the radiation?
What is the smallest class of elements?
What is friction that acts on objects that are moving through a fluid?
The sun’s gravity is relatively strong because the force of gravity between two objects is directly proportional to their what?
What do aquatic arthropods use to exchange gases with the water?
How many groups of leaves does poison ivy typically have?
This knocks electrons from atoms and turns them into ions?
What do you call an incomplete outer shell of an atom?
What are the specialized cells of sponges called?
What organ system is comprised of your heart, blood, and blood vessels all working together?
What type of cells capture light energy, and use carbon dioxide as their carbon source?
When drinking water is treated, what is the term for when chemicals cause solids in the water to clump together?
What does the urea cycle process?
When using a microscope we do not see the entire extent of the sample. depending on the eyepiece and objective lens we see a restricted region which we say is this?
Sickle cell diseas is caused by what?
What are the most successful organisms on earth?
The temperature of an object is a measure of what type of energy?
The chromosomal theory of inheritance proposed that what reside on chromosomes?
What process occurs around day 14 of a 28-day menstrual cycle, triggered by the lh surge?
What term refers to a change in species over time?
The nitrogen cycle moves nitrogen back and forth between the atmosphere and what?
Eutrophication, or high levels of nutrients, can cause conditions that deprive fish of what vital gas?
What ancestors did caecillians evolve from?
The surfaces of the bones at the joints are covered with a smooth layer of cartilage, which reduces what force between the bones when they move?
The infection-fighting complement system consists of roughly 30 proteins in?
In how many ways ca a living organism obtain chemical energy
What stage in human males lasts from about ages 12 to 18 years and is controlled by hormones?
Elasticity is the ability of a material to return to its original shape after being stretched or?
Many parasites have complex life cycles involving multiple ?
What type of light is composed of many rays having random polarization directions?
How do yeasts reproduce?
In science, what can be described as a set of steps that help us to answer questions?
What does the body derive from the breakdown of the carbohydrate-containing foods and drinks we consume?
A mitotic spindle forms from the centrioles and passes through the nuclear membrane, which remains intact. chromosomes attach to the mitotic spindle, which separates the chromosomes and does what?
Substances produced by a reaction are known as?
What happens to the core of a star when it begins to run low on hydrogen?
What occurs when air masses meet?
What's the name for a cluster of genes, where one promoter serves adjacent genes?
The diversity of alleles and genotypes within a population is known as genetic what?
What does temperature measure?
What is the term for when the water of the ocean slowly rises and falls?
Female monotremes lack a uterus and vagina. instead they have what?
Pigments are substances that absorb what?
What class of oxygencontaining compounds is formed by the dehydration of alcohols?
Group 16 is called the oxygen group. what is the only metalloid in this group?
In his work with pea plants, mendel performed what, which involves mating two true-breeding individuals that have different traits?
What type of minerals form when salt water evaporates?
What are identified by the azimuthal quantum number?
Desert plants have special stems and leaves to conserve what?
What substance causes oxidation by accepting electrons?
Angiosperm success is a result of two novel structures that ensure reproductive success: flowers and this?
Squamata is the largest order of what broad animal group, and includes lizards and snakes?
Animals that have been modified to express recombinant dna are called what?
In a medium, the closer the distribution of the material gets to what state, the slower the rate of diffusion becomes?
When substances pass through the cell membrane without needing any energy what is it called?
Elements that do not need to conduct electricity are known as what?
What does the moon not have to protect it from extreme temperatures?
What happens between particles with opposite charges?
Which generation of a plant is generally larger and longer-lived?
Mammals belong to which class of vertebrates?
Animals that have feeding patterns that are somewhere between that of herbivores and carnivores can be called what?
What organs produce eggs?
What kind of reaction adds water to an organic molecule and breaks the large molecule into smaller molecules?
How much larger can the most powerful light microscropes make an image?
In mammals, air is warmed and humidified in what?
What is the specialized tissue that transports water and nutrients throughout the plant and allows these plants to grow taller?
What is the term for the method of sending out ultrasound waves to determine the locations of objects?
In autosomal dominant inheritance only one "affected" what is necessary to result in an "affected" phenotype?
When the nucleus divides, the two chromatids that make up each chromosome separate from each other and move to opposite poles of the cell during this process?
What is the layer above the troposphere?
Which system consists of organs that break down food and absorb nutrients such as glucose?
What part of the eye controls the size of the pupil?
Depending on a tumor’s location, for example, cancer surgeons may be unable to remove it. radiation and chemotherapy are difficult, and it is often impossible to target only the cancer cells. the treatments inevitably destroy this?
Sodium is an example of what sort of thing that cannot exist by itself in nature?
What type of resource is water power?
Which part of the plant is responsible for seed production?
The two main agents of soil erosion are water and what else?
What do aggregate fruits like raspberries form from?
What kind of ions are named by adding the suffix -ide to the end?
These resources can be remade quickly, through natural processes
Inorganic chemical compounds can be broadly classified into two groups: ionic compounds and which other group?
Fish are a diverse and interesting group of organisms in what sub-phylum?
Spinal cord injuries are notoriously difficult to treat because spinal nerves do not do what?
The ratio of displacement to time interval is the average what?
What is the modern periodic table based on?
The needle of a compass is made of what element?
What is the process in which the genetic code in mrna is read to make a protein called?
What type of protein speeds up chemical reactions in cells?
In what part of the lungs is pulmonary gas exchanged?
What phenomenon occurs when strong winds blow surface water away from shore, allowing deeper water to flow to the surface and take its place?
When does the nucleus divide?
Olfactory, optic, and vestibulocochlear nerves are related to what type of function?
What happens when alkanes are mixed with oxygen at room temperature?
At the bottom of lakes and ponds, bacteria in what zone break down dead organisms that sink there?
What is the name for a heterotroph that eats only or mainly animal foods?
What is the name of an extreme form of radiation fog?
In what form is most of the earth's freshwater?
What cells do lymphocytes originate from in the bone marrow?
What is the common name for a simple harmonic oscillator, which basically consists of a small object suspended on a wire or string?
What kind of process occurs without the need for a continual input of energy from some external source?
What are fungus-like protists?
Electrons exist only where the wave is what?
What are the simplest hydrocarbons?
The shield type of what phenomenon commonly forms above hotspots in the oceans?
Bromide is present in brines, which are naturally occurring solutions of what?
What shape are the eight sides of an octahedra?
Unlike an adult sponge, what stage is motile due to cilia that propel it through water?
What weather phenomenon, which may bring clouds and precipitation, is created by stalled air masses?
What keeps glaciers from forming in water?
The human skeleton is an endoskeleton that consists of 206 bones in the adult. it has five main functions: providing support to the body, storing minerals and lipids, producing blood cells, protecting internal organs, and  this?
What's the name for the process where pollen is transferred to the ovules of a seed plant?
At what time of the year can tornadoes occur?
How is sediment transported?
Where are all hormones secreted into before entering the circulatory system?
Vertebrates have tissues which are organized into organs which in turn are organized into  what?
What can renewable resources can be replaced by?
When warm air rises up to the tropopause, where does it flow?
What kind of messages do neurons send?
What forces in liquids are strong enough to keep them from expanding significantly when heated?
Which chromosome is associated with cri du chat syndrome?
The strong affinity of concentrated sulfuric acid for water makes it a good agent of what?
Where in the female body does egg production take place?
What is the amorphous form of carbon prepared by the incomplete combustion of natural gas?
What do gametes undergo to produce many additional copies of themselves?
The greenhouse effect on earth is caused by an increase in what in the atmosphere?
What is the term for the quantity of heat required to raise the temperature of 1 gram of a substance by 1 degree celsius?
In animals, how many sets of chromosomes do gametes have?
What scale measures acidity?
What is sulfur trioxide dissolved in to form sulfuric acid?
Mendelian inheritance has its physical basis in the behavior of what?
The parasympathetic system can also be referred to as the what?
Negative feedback controls insulin secretion by what organ?
In the past, what colliding with planet earth has caused many organisms to die off?
The number, size, shape, and banding pattern of chromosomes make them easily identifiable in a what?
What are the egg shaped organs on either side of the uterus?
A voltaic cell uses what type of reaction to generate an electric current
Binary compounds of carbon with less electronegative elements are called what?
What makes viral stis more dangerous than other types?
What flows like taffy or hot wax?
What unit of measurement determines how far something travels in a given amount of time?
What happens do the sound during a resonance?
With a diet of live animals such as birds, small mammals and fish, all crocodilians are considered what?
Which types of compounds are more likely to burn easily?
Which of newton's law shows that there is a direct relationship between force and acceleration?
Which proteins recognize and combine with harmful materials, including both toxic chemicals and invasive microorganisms?
What type of behavioral rhythms are linked to the yearly cycle of seasons?
What type of scientist uses earth-orbiting telescopes?
Sponges possess an internal skeleton called what?
A fundamental particle of matter, protons and neutrons are made of these?
What is the name of the smaller molecules that make up proteins?
What is the term for a state of matter that yields to sideways or shearing forces?
Many structures in fish are adaptations for what type of lifestyle?
What takes place at some coastlines or along the equator and brings cool, nutrient-rich water to the surface?
The major classes of living members of this phylum include gastropods, bivalves, and cephalopods?
What is the thin coat of phospholipids that surrounds the cell and controls what enters and leaves?
Because conditions are not ideal, most populations grow ____________.
Besides the inner membrane, where are many respiratory enzymes found?
The most common elements have the most tightly bound __________.
What are particles that feel the strong nuclear force called?
Aquatic producers need nutrients and what dissolved gas, which is more abundant near the surface of water?
All elements are most stable when their outermost shell is filled with electrons according to which rule?
What do you need to do to water to make it steam?
When scientists work in natural settings rather than a lab, it is called what?
What is released into the atmosphere when fossil fuels are burned?
The leaf chameleon (brookesia micra) was discovered in northern madagascar in 2012. at just over one inch long, it is what?
Water and many metals are materials that have low resistance to electric currents and are therefore known as what?
What is the name of the science that is concerned with naming and grouping organisms?
What substance can be identified by their atomic number and mass number?
What do you call the first cell of a new organism?
What planet in our solar system has a moon with volcanic activity?
Kangaroos, koalas, and opossums are examples of what type of mammals?
Fe for iron and pb for lead are examples of elements known since ancient times, which have symbols based on their name in what language?
Referring to low what, hypovolemia may be caused by bleeding, dehydration, vomiting, severe burns, or some medications used to treat hypertension?
What particles allow fungi to reproduce through unfavorable conditions?
What is the term for an underground layer of rock that is saturated with groundwater?
Where do most ecosystems get energy from?
Maintaining a high metabolic rate takes a lot of what?
Electrons can move from one atom to another; when they do, specimens called what, with overall electric charges, are formed?
Energy is absorbed as reactants are converted to products in what kind of chemical reaction?
What is the permanent prevention of gamete production or release called?
Because pathogenic bacteria typically cause disease by releasing exotoxins or endotoxins, they have potential use as what type of weapon?
What cycle vital to plants includes a process called denitrification?
Cerebral palsy is a disease caused by injury to what organ as it is developing?
What substance is removed from waste as it passes through the large intestine?
The distance between two consecutive z discs or z lines is called what?
What is the largest taxonomic rank?
Which system is divided into the somatic and autonomic nervous systems?
The composition of the magma determines if the rock is mafic, felsic, or what?
The shape of the path of an object undergoing projectile motion is called?
What type of animals breathe with gills as larvae and with lungs as adults?
The most abundant formed elements in blood, erythrocytes are red, biconcave disks packed with an oxygen-carrying compound called this?
What is the scale on which acidity is measured?
Almost all fungi reproduce asexually by producing what?
Thomson’s plum pudding model shows the structure of what?
What type of carbons may be gases, liquids, or solids at room temperature?
What diagnostic technology uses high-frequency vibrations transmitted into any tissue in contact with the transducer?
At what time of life does menopause occur?
What type of current carries warm air from surrounding rocks to an animal's body?
What quality of sound makes a tuba and a piccolo very different to a listener?
Where is the food supply and embryo stored in a seed?
Most arthropods are insects. the phylum also includes spiders, centipedes, and what?
A cartilaginous joint where the bones are joined by fibrocartilage is called a what?
The horizontal stems on strawberry plants are called what?
What are the newest, outer layers of secondary xylem called?
Most amphibians breathe with these as larvae?
Defined as a substance in foods and beverages that is essential to human survival, what term encompasses water, energy-yielding and body-building substances, and vitamins and minerals?
Genetic disorders are diseases caused by what?
Transgenic animals are animals that have incorporated a gene from another species into their what?
What structure of a cell is enclosed by a membrane and contains most of the cell’s dna?
Does air temperature increase or decrease as it rises higher in the atmosphere?
During what do homologous chromosomes separate and go to different daughter cells?
The light reactions take place in which membranes?
Fossils themselves and the order in which they appear in are generally collectively called what?
Hormones send what through your body?
What does the armor including spines in some species offer?
Individual nucleotides can be linked together through their phosphate groups to form?
The name silicon is derived from the latin word for flint?
What two types of juices help digestion within the small intestine?
Cells in a biofilm secrete what to recruit nearby cells?
A standing wave is created when what type of wave interferes with the original wave?
The kidneys are a pair of bean-shaped structures that are located just below and posterior to the liver in this?
What term means anything that is detected either through human senses or with instruments and measuring devices that extend human senses?
The white fluffy part of popcorn is also what?
What change can you expect in vectors that are perpendicular to each other?
Where is roughage fermented and digested in pseudo-ruminants?
How quickly a population changes in size over time is known as what?
Electromagnetic waves transfer energy across space as well as through what?
What is the term for abnormally low blood levels of carbon dioxide?
The vivid colors of flowers are an adaptation designed to encourage what by animals such as insects and birds?
Arthropods change into the adult form in a process called what?
What is the largest part of the brain?
What type of weathering breaks rock into smaller pieces?
The coordination sphere consists of the central metal ion or atom plus its attached what?
What functions like a flexible coat of armor, preventing the protist from being torn or pierced without compromising its range of motion?
The marine west coast climate gets lots of rain because of what being nearby?
What determines whether a volcanic eruption will be explosive or not?
Platinum and gold are useful materials for constructing circuits because of their ability to resist what?
How many set of chromosomes do moss have?
When you change a magnetic field through electromagnetic induction what do you create?
Morphological and molecular data indicate that wings evolved how many times in insects?
Nonmetal structures contain what type of bonds?
Gas lines should be made of what so they do not rupture?
What is the lipid-rich sheath that surrounds the axon and facilitates the transmission of electrical signals along the axon?
Where is urine formed in the body?
What is the term for rain consisting of water with a ph below 5?
What type of ecosystem do polar bears live in?
Pseudopods are false what?
Ionic bonds are what kind of attraction between ions?
What type of change occurs when matter changes chemically into an entirely different substance with different chemical properties?
Australia is home to many endemic species. the (a) wallaby (wallabia bicolor), a medium-sized member of the kangaroo family, is a pouched mammal, or this?
What do you call structures like a whale's pelvic bones, which were once attached to legs, or wings that cannot be used for flight?
What type of hybridization does ammonia undergo?
What does increased temperature do to a substance's kinetic energy?
What natural process is associated with the death of cells?
What color and shape are cumulus clouds?
During the early paleozoic, the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere compared to today was?
Physical science is defined as the study of what?
What do you call the two ends of a magnet where the magnetic effect is strongest?
The scale that is used to measure the loudness of sound measures their loudness in what?
What are located on either side of the pharynx in the throat?
What kind of reproduction requires the fusion of male and female gametes?
Diseases of the lungs, bronchial tubes, trachea, nose, and throat affect what organ system?
What factor other than genes is important in determining adult height?
What does burning wood release into the atmosphere?
The largest region of each of the palatine bone is the what?
What does viscosity do to liquids?
What system is involved in diseases that include type 1 diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis and multiple sclerosis?
What are are organisms that feed on small pieces of organic matter?
What process would be impossible without some variation in the inherited traits of organisms within a species?
Monoecious flowers are also known as “perfect” flowers because they contain both types of what organ?
Human beings depend on learned behaviors more than any other?
Oxygen, carbon, hydrogen and what other element make up approximately 96% of living matter?
What type electrical circuits have multiple paths the current may take?
Hydrophobic interactions arise because water molecules engage in what type of bonding with other water molecules?
What is the second most common skin cancer?
Species divergence often, but not always, occurs because of what type of barrier between species?
The chytrids the only class in the phylum chytridiomycota is the chytridiomycetes. the chytrids are the simplest and most primitive eumycota, or true this?
Almost all vascular plants have mycorrhizae and rely on their fungal partners for what?
What occurs when there is a sudden and large falling of rocks down a slope?
What are gymnosperms lacking compared to most angiosperms?
Calculations are described showing conversions between molar mass and what for gases?
What sudden ground movement is caused by the sudden release of the energy stored in rocks, which is transmitted in seismic waves?
What is the name for the cooler, darker areas on the sun’s surface?
Plants need sunlight for what process?
The vast majority of what phenomena occurs along one of three types of plate boundaries?
What weather events move with the prevailing winds and originate in the trade winds in the northern hemisphere?
What is the name for the male reproductive organs or gonads?
What glands in the breast secrete milk?
Sutures, gomphoses, and syndesmoses are types of what, which are found where adjacent bones are strongly united by connective tissue?
Heat, electricity, or light might provide what necessary input to the process of decomposition?
What is made up of a watery substance called cytosol and contains other cell structures such as ribosomes?
What type of energy is required in all chemical reactions?
What type of image is formed when light rays diverge in front of a mirror?
What is the condition of a plant in which the fluid in a cell exerts a pressure against the cell wall?
What phenomenon, crucial for evolution, creates new genetic variation in a gene pool and is how all new alleles first arise?
What is the name of the stage of life when a child becomes sexually mature?
A man made lake is known as what?
Alchemy helped improve the study of metallurgy and the extraction of metals from what?
What are the two types of vascular tissues?
The spinal cord develops, cells making up the wall of the neural tube proliferate and differentiate into what?
Eventually the parent cell will pinch apart to form two identical types of what cells?
The body cells cannot use insulin properly in which type of diabetes?
Birds belong to a group of diapsids called the what?
How many limbs to birds have?
Planes fly in what layer of the atmosphere because there is less friction and turbulence?
What is a group of similar ecosystems with the same general abiotic factors and primary producers?
Interferons are produced in virally infected cells and cause them to secrete signals for surrounding cells to make what?
What slow process is required for formation of soil?
What is defined as superheated gas with a positive electrical charge?
Materials, such as iron, that exhibit strong magnetic effects are labeled what?
Like birds, most other reptiles excrete their nitrogenous wastes as what acid?
The two main fundamental particles that make up neutrons are quarks and what else?
Birds have evolved a respiratory system that enables them to fly. flying is a high-energy process and requires a lot of this?
Lysosomes have what type of enzymes that break down old molecules into parts that can be recycled?
The breasts contain what to give milk to feed a baby?
What form when water vapor condenses in the air around specs of matter?
All other forms of life, including plants and animals, are composed of what kind of cells?
A mycorrhiza refers to what kind of relationship between a fungus and the roots of a plant?
What is earth's main source of energy?
Kirchhoff’s second rule (the loop rule) is an application of conservation of what?
Evolution over a short period of time at the level of the population is called what?
When water is heated by magma and makes it's way to the surface what is created?
The mechanical and digestive processes have one goal: to convert food into molecules small enough to be absorbed by the epithelial cells of what?
Influenza virus is packaged in a viral envelope, which fuses with the what?
A desert is a type of what community in an ecosystem?
What are the two types of properties that matter has?
What is the hormone produced in high-stress situations?
What type of reaction causes two substances to combine to make a single substance?
Hay fever is actually an allergy to what substance, vital to plant reproduction?
Endotherms are warmed mostly by heat generated by what?
If a ball is released from rest when air resistance is negligible, velocity is seen to increase linearly, while what related property is a constant?
What term is used to describe the ability of matter to burn?
What is the evolutionary history of group of related organisms
What forms a ketone when oxidized?
What is the energy that flows as a result of a difference in temperature?
Exposure to toxins is most damaging during weeks 4 through 8 of the embryonic stage due to development of what during this period?
What evolutionary process may affect the distribution of a polygenic trait?
What type of force exists between two touching surfaces?
A short reflex is completely what and only involves the local integration of sensory input with motor output?
The urea cycle, a set of biochemical reactions that produces urea from ammonium ions to prevent toxicity, occurs to some extent in the kidney, but primarily in what organ?
Cellular respiration is the reverse or opposite of what?
What force pulls object downwards to the earth?
How does deeper material cause convection in the mantle?
From what did the first proto-oncogenes arise?
What material used for helium-filled balloons is dense, strong and opaque, with a high molecular mass that forms films that have many fewer pores than rubber?
What do erythrocytes carry and deliver to tissues in the body?
How many neutrons do 99% of carbon atoms have?
What are the two metals within a battery called?
What is one thing that can not happen to energy?
Where do most biochemical reactions take place?
The ends of linear chromosomes are maintained by the action of which enzyme?
Through which process does water from the oceans enter the atmosphere?
In what type of process does heat flow into its surroundings and cause an increase in kinetic energy?
Prokaryotic organisms, like bacteria, reproduce through what process, where they grow and divide in half?
Displacement is a vector quantity, which means it has both direction and what else?
Waste leaves the body in the form of what?
What process can occur when atoms are exposed to high levels of radiation or when atoms transfer electrons to or from other atoms?
Who should an obese person with an eating disorder seek for help?
The period of life between the start of puberty and the beginning of adulthood is called?
What element once commonly used in paint and gasoline has now been found to have dangerous effects?
What can happen spontaneously or as a result of mutagens in the environment?
Abnormally high activity or low activity of the parathyroid gland can cause disorders related to levels of what bone mineral?
Unlike other tetrapod vertebrates (reptiles, birds, and mammals), amphibians do not produce what type of eggs?
What is the name for an underground layer of rock that is saturated with groundwater?
What are prepared by the oxidation of secondary alcohols?
Saturated and unsaturated are the two main kinds of what?
Most reptiles lay what kind of eggs?
Sulfur can combine with oxygen to produce what?
The nitrogen that enters living systems by nitrogen fixation is successively converted from organic nitrogen back into nitrogen gas by what?
What term describes the amount of solute in a given amount of solution?
Which process helps absorptive protists absorb food molecules across their cell membranes?
When matter recycles and changes state what does it gain or lose by doing so?
Where does oxygen enter the blood?
What kind of compounds change color when bases come into contact with them, so they can be used to detect bases?
Concentric circles that spread out through the water around the droplets are actually types of what moving through the water?
The smallest units of matter that retain the unique properties of an element are known as what?
What is a process that changes some chemical substances into other chemical substances?
What type of lens and mirrors have a negative focal length?
What is the formation of organs from the germ layers called?
What must two nuclei do for fusion to occur?
What determines the ability of soil particles to bind many nutrients?
Enthalpy is a measure of the total energy of what kind of system?
In eukaryotes, the new mrna is not yet ready for translation. it must go through more processing before it leaves where?
What term describes the splitting of the nucleus of an atom into two smaller nuclei?
What type of contamination causes almost 90% of diarrheal disease worldwide?
Why is respiratory acidosis considered to be problematic?
When light strikes rhodopsin, the g-protein transducin is activated, which in turn activates what?
In what stage of photosynthesis does the calvin cycle occur?
All of the planets rotate on their axes in the same direction that they move around the sun, except for which one?
What is the process by which organisms change in small ways over time?
What regulates the cell cycle only when they are tightly bound to cdks?
Einstein developed a theory about how electromagnetic radiation can behave as both a wave and what else?
What type of proteins are only temporarily associated with the membrane?
Which organisms break down either organic or inorganic molecules to supply energy for the cell?
What are the things moving under the earth's mantle that move the crust?
Although they look like big rocks, what structures that serve as habitats for many different types of ocean life are actually alive?
What type of reactions are chemical reactions that release energy?
Fossil fuels and coal are examples of what kind of resources?
What type of compound contains atoms of two or more different elements in its ring structure?
What is formed when atoms of different elements combine in a chemical reaction?
What type of electricity is formed when a negative charge builds up and are transferred?
What important liquid is stored throughout the earth in the oceans, underground, and in ice?
What results when a warm air mass runs into a cold air mass?
Which type of double bond has a sigma bond and a pi bond?
Has the average annual temperature on earth been rising or falling for the past 100 years?
The majoirty of modern gymnosperms belong to what group, which includes pine trees?
A circuit must be what in order for electric devices such as light bulbs to work?
What type of radiation from the sun reaches earth across space striking everything on earth’s surface?
What happens if a catalyst runs out?
What type of mammals are humans?
The shape of the path of an object undergoing projectile motion in two dimensions is a what?
The earliest cells were called what?
Protists are the simplest of what?
The measure of magnetic fields is named after a serbian physicist. what is his name?
Radon (rn) is a radioactive gas formed by the decay of naturally occurring uranium in rocks such as granite. it tends to collect in the basements of houses and poses a significant health risk if present in indoor air. many states now require that houses be tested for radon before they are what?
What state of matter takes neither the shape nor the volume of its container?
Force times distance is the equation for what?
What is the name for a series of changes in the reproductive system of mature females that repeats every month on average?
What is the name of the iron-containing oxygen-transport protein in the red blood cells of all vertebrates?
What is the active ingredient in household bleach?
What are the membrane-bound organelles that are usually larger than vesicles and can have secretory, excretory, and storage functions?
What broad category of animals is primarily ectothermic and covered with scales that facilitate swimming?
What has two chains of nucleotides, one more than rna?
The axon terminates on muscle fibers at the neuromuscular junction. acetylcholine is released at this specialized synapse, which causes the muscle action potential to begin, following a large potential known as an end plate potential. when the lower motor neuron excites the muscle fiber, it contracts. all of this occurs in a fraction of a second, but this story is the basis of how this functions?
Misconceptions about what theory contribute to the controversy that still surrounds this fundamental principle of biology?
What device is used to stop a current in a circuit?
What oily substance prevents the hair and skin of living things from drying out?
What two types of communication do both humans and birds use primarily?
Eggs are produced in what organs and, upon fertilization, develop in what other organ?
The first line of defense includes mechanical, chemical, and which other barrier?
What is another term for nearsightedness?
Because all animals require an external source of what, they are called heterotrophic?
What causes blue litmus to turn red?
When fossil fuel is burned the chemical energy is converted into what?
What two activities are especially important when a number of local populations are linked, forming a metapopulation?
What is the physical environment in which a species lives and to which it has adapted?
What kind of tests may detect substances associated with particular disorders?
Scientists think the solar system formed from a big cloud of gas and dust called what?
What are the largest phylum of the animal kingdom?
What is the name for a material that prevents the transfer of heat energy?
What is a rock exposed to if it's undergoing metamorphism?
Water infiltrates the ground because soil and rock may have air spaces between the grains. these pores, or tiny holes, result in the rock's what?
Work is done only if a force is exerted in the direction of what?
What is the smallest independently functioning unit of a living organism?
All animals have specialized types of what basic structures, which can then do different jobs?
What term describes the number of items in a given area or volume?
Birds are known for flying south in the winter to avoid what?
The root system is usually anchored by one main root developed from what?
What type of learning is done from past experiences and reasoning?
Where is the pituitary gland?
Which fungi eaten by people all over the world?
The outermost layer of the leaf is the epidermis; it is present on both sides of the leaf and is called the upper and lower epidermis, respectively. botanists call the upper side the adaxial surface (or adaxis) and the lower side this?
A small quake preceding a large quake is called what?
What do winter storms develop from at higher latitudes?
What is the only substance on earth that is present in all three states of matter?
What is essential for forming new genes?
What is fluid friction with air called?
Plants produce their own sugars and other food molecules through what process?
What do fission reactors use to slow down the neutrons?
What term is used to describe an unusual sound coming from the heart that is caused by the turbulent flow of blood?
Carbon atoms are bonded to as many hydrogen atoms as possible in what type of fatty acids?
What kind of mouthparts do aphids have?
Sounds, chemicals, and visual cues are examples of what between animals?
What is pressure times area equal to?
What part of the kangaroo helps it balance when it leaps as well as when it sits?
What is the evolutionary history of a group of related organisms called?
What are specialized cells in the brain that monitor the concentration of solutes in the blood called?
Bones consist of four types of tissue, compact bone, spongy bone, bone marrow, and what?
During adolescence, what causes most of the changes associated with puberty?
What is essential for cellular respiration for all aerobic organisms?
Breeding in birds occurs through an internal type of what process?
In an endothermic reaction, what is absorbed by the reaction?
What scientist and monk is best known for his experiments with pea plants?
What are structures that protect the coast like barrier islands called?
What leads to multiple copies of a chromosomal region?
The larger surface area of leaves allows them to capture more what?
What is connected to, and dependent on, the gametophyte?
After passing through capillaries and being filtered, clean blood leaves what organ through a vein?
What kind of medical intervention seeks to eradicate diseases like polio and measles?
The ostrich, kiwi, rhea, cassowary, and moa are examples of what kind of birds?
What occurs when individuals of different species strive for a limited resource in the same area?
Most fungi reproduce asexually by producing what?
Alchemists, as early as the eighth century, knew nitric acid as aqua fortis, which means?
Particles of sand and what other substance are carried by longshore drift?
Most reptiles reproduce sexually and have what type of fertilization?
What is type of substance is formed when water vapor condenses or when ice melts?
What occur because solid lithosphere travels on a round planet?
What is the unit of evolution?
The boiling points of liquid also correlate to the strength of which forces?
Vitamin d is made in the skin when it is exposed to what?
Of the three basic types of radioactive emissions, what particle is the most penetrating?
Which ocean zone is the narrow strip along a coastline that is covered by water at high tide and exposed to air at low tide?
Elongation is the addition of what to the mrna strand?
What is the distance north or south of the equator called?
The force exerted by a diving board is conservative, provided the internal friction is this?
Along with other elements, most ores are made of what?
The bottoms—but not the tops—of the wave slow down because of what?
Molecular geometry is the three-dimensional arrangement of atoms in a what?
What mineral is used to produce glass?
What is caused by atoms or ions when they share or transfer valance electrons?
Due to the time it takes for light to reach us, galaxies at the edge of the universe are distant in terms of space and what else?
Some membrane proteins that actively transport ions contribute to what?
In which human organ do the juveniles develop into sexually mature adults?
Both sexes of sockeye salmon turn red with green heads just prior to what?
While the numerical aperture can be used to compare resolutions of various objectives, it does not indicate how far the lens could be from the what?
Energy from the sun has a wide range of wavelengths.what is the total range of energy called?
When something loses electrons, it must also?
Water and chemical elements that organisms need keep recycling through biogeochemical what?
What is the most abundant biochemical compound, making up the cell walls of plants?
What organisms use cilia, pseudopods, or flagella to move?
During which phase do sister chromatids separate and the centromeres divide?
What term describes a type of redox reaction in which the same substance is both oxidized and reduced?
Each organism inherits one of what item for each gene from each parent?
What term is used to refer to the external female reproductive structures collectively?
Which state of matter has the lowest density?
Skeletal, cardiac, and smooth are the three types of what cells and possess morphologies correlated with their functions?
What do glands in the skin produce to cool down the body?
The only obvious difference between boys and girls at birth is what type of organs?
Mammals have a number of kinds of thermoreceptors, each specific for a particular what?
With a shape that specially suits its function of sending nerve signals to other cells, the human nerve cell is an example of what?
What is defined as the mass per unit volume of a substance?
What reaction means, literally, “splitting with water"?
Approximately how much larger is the radius of an atom than that of its nucleus?
What can be worn to protect hands and skin from harm?
What type of movements are produced when the angle between the bones of a joint changes?
What senses the movement of liquid in ear canals?
What part of the brain regulates certain hormones associated with reproduction during breeding seasons?
What is any nonmetallic, inorganic solid that is strong enough for use in structural applications called?
What is the outer layer of the sun made up of?
Viruses may damage or kill cells by causing the release of hydrolytic enzymes from where?
Species that have diverged from their common ancestors have greater differences in what?
In a fuel cell, energy is not stored; electrical energy is provided by what?
What substance comes toward earth's crust through mantle plumes?
A plant is composed of two main types of tissue: meristematic tissue and what other kind of tissue?
The smallest and lightest alcohols (methanol, ethanol, propanol) are completely soluble in?
In which stage do chromosomes line up one on top of each other along the middle of the cell, similar to how they line up in mitosis?
If the frequency of the electromagnetic wave is the same as the natural frequencies of the system, the transfer of what is much more efficient?
When are nutrients absorbed into the body?
What happens to the length of the days in the fall?
Of the nine classes of vertebrates, how many are fish?
After fertilization is complete, no other sperm can enter. the fertilized ovule forms the seed, whereas the tissues of the ovary become this?
What is a fluid-filled body cavity that is completely enclosed by mesoderm called?
Which is the least massive outer planet?
The nervous system is characterized by electrical signals that are sent from one area to another. whether those areas are close or very far apart, the signal must travel along this?
What occurs when light reflects off a very smooth surface and forms a clear image?
The head of the sperm contains what, which holds the chromosomes?
What system is responsible for defending your body against sickness?
What effect occurs when a few individuals start, or found, a new population?
Each kidney is supplied by a renal artery and what else?
What cell structures capture light energy from the sun and use it with water and carbon dioxide to produce sugars for food?
What is released when catabolic pathways break down complex molecules?
Mass and volume are examples of what kind of properties?
What technique is used by insects and birds to find food, mates, and safety from predators?
What property of food is determined by burning the food and measuring the heat released?
What simple machine works with a wheel and axle in a wheelbarrow?
What type of joint has the greatest range of motion?
What  is the movement of molecules from an area of high concentration of the molecules to an area with a lower concentration?
Light-weight air-filled bones and a large four-chambered heart helps a bird do what?
The myod protein deserves its designation as a master regulatory what?
When flagellated sperm must swim to the egg, sexual reproduction requires the presence of what substance?
What consists of these five stages: prophase, prometaphase, metaphase, anaphase, and telophase?
What is the name of the muscle at the end of the esophagus?
What do you call the high and low points of transverse waves?
For each initial glucose molecules, two pyruvate molecules will enter where?
Through which artery does blood enter the kidneys?
Where do radio waves lie on the electromagnetic spectrum?
What links the trophic levels from producers to top carnivores?
The waste of cows releases a lot of which type of gas?
What allows giraffes to reach leaves that other ground animals cannot?
Chemical formulas for ionic compounds are called what?
What term is used to describe the full range of electromagnetic waves?
How many lobes is each hemisphere of the cerebrum divided into?
Varicose veins are veins that become enlarged because the valves no longer do this?
Liquids with strong intermolecular forces have higher what than liquids with weaker forces?
What kind of volcanoes often form along divergent plate boundaries?
An element symbol without a charge written next to it is assumed to be what?
What is the fundamental unit of structure and function in all living organisms?
What characteristic of particles determines how they are carried by flowing water?
What term refers to something supplied by nature that helps support life?
What is the shape of the orbits that planets make around the sun?
What are chlamydia, gonorrhea, and syphilis an example of?
What organism are resistant to freezing and drying and also are metabolically inactive?
What is produced during a condensation reaction?
What force pulls objects toward the center of the earth?
Where are protons and neutrons located?
What is a measurement of the amount of variation of the species in a given area called?
Deleting or inserting a nitrogen base causes what?
What are the chemical messengers used to communicate between cells?
Graphite and diamond both are made from carbon. what makes diamonds so hard?
The paranasal sinuses are hollow, air-filled spaces located within certain bones of the skull. all of the sinuses communicate with the nasal cavity (paranasal = “next to nasal cavity”) and are lined with this?
What determines the strength of a base when dissolved in water?
What is the low level of radiation that occurs naturally in the environment called?
Varicella zoster virus causes what two illnesses?
The urethra transports urine from what organ to the outside of the body for disposal?
Magnetite crystals in lava typically point to what geographic location?
Liquids that mix with water in all proportions are usually polar substances or substances that form these?
Lattice energy cannot be measured directly. what is its calculation based on?
What process provides over 99% of the energy supply for life on earth?
What type of animal are most reptiles in regards to diet?
Because of their reactivity, we do not find most representative metals as free elements where?
Two important concepts, niche and habitat, are associated with what?
When does diseases like alzheimer's become more common?
What is a fibrocartilaginous pad that fills the gap between adjacent vertebral bodies?
What organic catalysts work by lowering the activation energy needed to start biochemical reactions?
What structure supports the body, protects internal organs, produces blood cells, and maintains mineral homeostasis?
When vertebrate animals metabolize ammonia what is the primary byproduct that is produced?
Which process involves solvent separation on a solid medium?
Plasmodesmata and gap junctions are channels between adjacent cells of what respective types?
Natural gas burns cleaner and produces less carbon dioxide than fuels of what type?
What are the simplest types of carbon-based compounds?
What process moves food through the esophagus no matter which position the body is in?
The female reproductive organs include the ovaries, fallopian tubes, uterus, and what?
What do offsprings obtain from their parents in what is called, inheritance?
Warming up your body before a workout does what to the blood flow?
What is a substance that increases the hydrogen ion concentration of a solution?
Scientists ask questions, and then make detailed observations to try to ask more specific questions, in order to develop what?
What is the main difference between prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells ?
Supercontinents have formed at least how many times in earth history?
How are layers of the atmosphere divided?
What term is used to describe molecules that contain carbon-nitrogen bonds?
Birds have a flow-through respiratory system in which air flows unidirectionally from the posterior sacs into the lungs, then into these?
What are convection currents that occur far below the surface of the ocean called?
Cations are attracted to anions, which are ions with what charge?
A non-bony skeleton that forms outside of the body is known as a what?
The vagina connects to which internal organ?
What is the measure of electric current?
Name a passageway that is shared with the digestive system.
What substances function as a long-term energy store in the human body and possess long carbon chains that prevent dissolving in water?
Thermal, radiant, electrical, nuclear, and chemical are all types of what?
Coronary arteries ans small in what?
What occurs when a substance reacts quickly with oxygen?
What are the two basic types of competition called?
Algae are much simpler than protozoa. they are aquatic and contain this?
What is a gram stain used to identify ?
Burning gas to run our cars is an example of how human activity is contributing to what global event?
The periodic table of elements is divided into what?
Wave amplitude of a transverse wave is the difference in height between what and the resting position?
What is secreted before ejaculation to neutralize acidic urine remaining in the urethra?
Because conifers carry both male and female sporophylls on the same mature sporophyte, they are considered what type of plant?
Who lack some of the defining traits of chordates?
What does convection within the earth's mantel cause?
Autoimmunity can develop with time, and its causes may be rooted in this?
Why does warm air rise higher in the troposphere?
Getting the same result when an experiment is repeated is called what?
Some membranes have what kind of surfaces exposed to the cytoplasm?
Plants and fungi cells have what basic cell structure, which animals do not have?
The way in which the sun produces light is called what?
What kind of light bulb contains a thin wire filament made of tungsten that gets hot and glows?
What do you call a mixture in which some particles settle out of it when it is left standing?
What do you call the process of a solid becoming a liquid?
Once a plant cell becomes specialized, what can they no longer do?
The hardest natural substance, diamond is a form of what element?
Much of what type of radiation that strikes the planet is reflected back into space?
What particles are formed from a neutron in beta decay?
What class of acids do carboxylic acids fall under?
Plants can absorb inorganic nutrients and water through their root system, and what gas from the environment?
Giardia is an example of a protozoa that uses flagella for what purpose?
Nearly all earthquakes occur where?
Conotoxins released by certain marine snails can bring about paralysis in humans, indicating that this toxin attacks what system?
What is the second largest planet in the solar system?
Fruit comes from the ovaries of what types of plants?
Resistors connected end to end are said to be in what?
Molar mass is equal to density multiplied by what?
What plastid makes and stores other pigments?
What effect causes global winds to blow on a diagonal over the earth's surface?
When members of the same species compete for the same resources, it is called what?
Antibiotics only target prokaryotic cells - they do not affect fungi, which are not prokaryotic, but instead what?
What do bees carry from one plant to another to facilitate plant growth and development?
Why is the drift velocity negligible?
Instruments that measure the angle of the slope of a volcano are called what?
What is the term for preserved remains or traces of organisms that lived in the past?
Birds flying thousands of miles south in the winter, then returning to their homes in spring, is a familiar example of what?
The hydration of what is what makes many alcohols?
What causes oxides to decompose?
With codominance, both alleles are expressed equally in what?
When hit from behind in a car crash, a passenger can suffer a neck injury called what?
When a species always migrates, what is this type of migration called?
How are valuable metabolites recovered?
Structures that have lost their use through evolution are called _______
What does continental crust grade into at continental margins?
What body system consists of organs that break down food, absorb nutrients, and eliminate waste?
Some samples of matter appear to have properties of solids, liquids, and/or gases at the same time. this can occur when the sample is composed of many what?
Stimuli in the brain, stomach, and small intestine activate or inhibit production of what secretion?
What is the term for a symbiotic relationship in which one species benefits while the other species is not affected?
What does the a1c test measure over the past two to three months?
What is the term for liquid waste formed by kidneys?
Why does metal conduct heat and electricity so well?
Liverworts are small plants that grow close  to what?
What do atoms make by rearranging their chemical bonds in a reactant?
Spindle fibers pull what apart in anaphase i?
What type of mutations cannot be passed on to offspring?
What is the process in which cells break down glucose, release the stored energy, and use it to make atp
Dew point is the temperature at which what occurs?
In what type of diabetes can the pancreas still make insulin, but the cells of the body cannot use it efficiently?
What are the two classifications of factors in the environment that affect organisms?
What do increasing greenhouse gas concentrations in the air do to the earth's temperature?
What is the name of a microorganism that is considered important for living resources in all ecosystem?
What bone cell is responsible for forming new bone and is found in the growing portions of bone, including the periosteum and endosteum?
Individuals with what condition experience depigmentation that results in lighter colored patches of skin?
What do decomposers release back to the environment after they break down the remains and other wastes?
What are the areas between cells that either allow or prevent the movement of materials called?
Arguably the most important ingredient in saliva for digestion is a type of what, which initiates the breakdown of carbohydrates?
What element can form two different compounds with oxygen?
Each protein has its own unique sequence and shape held together by chemical interactions. if the protein is subject to changes in temperature, ph, or exposure to chemicals, the protein structure may change, losing its shape in what is known as this?
Because they can cause diseases in plants, some parasitic fungi are considered what?
What is another common term for single-unit smooth muscle?
What is the term for the horizontal displacement of a projectile from its starting point?
What types of stimuli control endocrine activity?
What events, resulting in death of over half of animal species, have occurred on earth at least five times in the past 540 million years?
What is most of the water used in agriculture used for?
What is a collection of fibrin, platelets, and erythrocytes that has accumulated along the lining of a blood vessel called?
Acidity is measured on what kind of scale?
What is the enclosed, fluid-filled membrane that surrounds and protects the fetus and is attached to the placenta?
Alzheimer’s disease is a disease that occurs mainly in what population?
What do sudoriferous glands secrete?
Group 15 of the periodic table is also called which group?
Humans need lipids for many vital functions such as storing energy and forming what?
What bond is a force of attraction between ions and atoms?
What type of cells are the smallest of all human cells?
Vertebrates also require relatively large quantities of calcium and phosphorus for building and maintaining what?
What contains most of the structures found in skin?
What is the study of matter and energy referred to as?
What do you call the ability of a particular electrochemical cell to generate an electric current?
What is a controlled scientific study of specific variables called?
What happened to earth's species during the permian period?
Which organ in the body controls the amount of water loss in urine in response to maintaining homeostasis?
What is corrosive mixture is formulated by the combination of water, air and sulfur?
What type of pollutants enter the air directly?
What type of reaction is a process in which some substances, called reactants, change into different substances, called products?
What is the number placed in front of a chemical symbol or formula that shows how many atoms or molecules of the substance are involved in the reaction?
Through what does urine enter the bladder?
The male and female reproductive system is regulated by follicle-stimulating hormone (fsh) and luteinizing hormone (lh) produced by what gland?
How do plants grow?
What part of the brain is attached to the brain stem but considered a separate region of the adult brain?
Plants are described by what term, meaning their cells have a nucleus and membrane-bound organelles?
What is a primary source of the hormone melatonin?
How many more times likely are men to suffer from iron overload?
Misfolding of polypeptides is a serious problem in what?
What does the inner membrane divide into two internal compartments?
Defined as total distance traveled divided by elapsed speed, average speed is a scalar quantity that does not include what?
Lymph capillaries collect fluid that leaks out of what?
Action potentials occur whenever a depolarization increases the membrane voltage to a particular value called what?
Programmed cell death is also known as?
What happens to the mass number during a nuclear decay process by positron emission?
Embryos usually don't survive if they have extra or too few of these genetic units?
Like the other outer planets, neptune has rings of ice and what?
In an electromagnetic wave, what do the crests and troughs represent?
What biome is located between the temperate and tropical biomes?
Metabolism is the sum of all catabolic and which other reactions in the body?
Diarrhea due to food poisoning is an example of a problem involving what organ system?
White light is a mixture of all wavelengths of what?
What prevents solutes that have accumulated in the xylem from leaking back into the soil solution?
Hydrogen chloride contains one atom of hydrogen and one atom of what?
What property of toluene and xylene makes them important in the chemical industry?
The earliest cells were prokaryotes, surrounded by a cell membrane but lacking which key structure?
When is the rate of the forward reaction equal to the rate of the reverse reaction?
In which process do signaling molecules from embryonic cells cause transcriptional changes in nearby target cells?
Every species has a characteristic number of what?
Ecologists already use the abilities of many prokaryotes to carry out bioremediation of soils and what else?
How is most evidence gathered in science?
Phosphate groups are found within phospholipids and what else?
Yogurt is made with milk fermented with what?
What is energy from the sun called?
What is the term for when gravity pulls soil, mud, and rocks down cliffs and hillsides?
Metals are good conductors of what?
What plant hormone allows plants to curve in a specific direction?
What is the most common type of organic compound?
Dissolved oxygen in seawater is critical for sea creatures, but as the oceans warm, oxygen becomes less what?
Light waves differ based on their frequency and what else?
What kind of diseases can be difficult to treat because they live inside the host's cells, making it hard to destroy them without killing host cells?
What type of cellular respiration occurs in the presence of oxygen?
Stomata must control the transpiration of water vapor and the exchange of carbon dioxide and oxygen that take place during what process?
If pollination and fertilization occur, a diploid zygote forms within an ovule, located where
What makes up 99 percent of air?
What is the process in which producers get their energy from sources other than the sun?
Parasitism, mutualism, and commensalism are instances of what type of interaction?
The cell wall of plants is made up of a complex carbohydrate that is a polymer of what sugar?
Which metal is not a solid even at room temperature?
How do molecules react when a gas is heated?
Mountain building and earthquakes are some of the responses of rocks when subected to what?
What is defined as maintaining a stable internal environment?
What element chemically weathers rock by combining with a metal?
Porifera are parazoans that exhibit simple organization and lack true what?
The values of which factors are controlled by the experimenter over the course of an experiment?
What are the most common causes of brain injuries?
Electrons are located at fixed distances from the nucleus, what are they called?
Which factor has a big impact on coastal climates?
What occurs when light bends as it passes from one type of matter to another?
What is  a polymer formed by chain addition reactions between monomers that contain a double bond called?
What do you call resources that can be replaced at the rate they are being used?
The type of vesicle transport that moves a substance out of the cell is called?
What characteristic of birds is related to the food they eat?
What tube carries urine out of the body?
What plant products may be classified as simple, aggregate, multiple, or accessory, depending on their origin?
What term describes the amount of material present in an object?
What class of animals includes the subgroups rodents, carnivores, insectivores, bats, and primates?
What is the transfer of thermal energy by waves that can travel through empty space called?
The lighter photic zone and darker aphotic zone are determined by what?
Plant cuttings are an example of what type of reproduction?
Destructive interference in waves occurs when what things overlap?
When two plates of continental crust collide, the material pushes upward and forms what?
What is split to produce nuclear energy?
What measures the amount of matter in an object?
What is the primary component of steel alloys?
Light energy is absorbed by which kind of molecule?
What is the second class of fish after ray-finned fish?
Regulation of endocrine depends on the hypothalmus and what other gland?
What according to scientists is the major cause of depression?
What is a soft, malleable, and corrosion resistant material called?
Momentum is a vector quantity that has the same direction as what?
What type of role does cartilage play in the human skeleton?
Prokaryotes divide via binary fission and do not undergo what process of cell division?
Light with the shortest wavelength appears as what color?
What is lava called before it reaches the surface of the earth?
What is the term for atherosclerosis of arteries that supply the heart muscle?
Food is chemical energy stored in what?
What has a bigger impact on water quality, natural events or human activity?
What is the amount of energy required to begin a chemical reaction known as?
Acne is a skin disturbance that typically occurs on areas of the skin that are rich in sebaceous glands (face and back). it is most common along with the onset of puberty due to association with these?
What are the two main components in a battery?
Lots of volcanoes form along which boundaries?
Which body organ filters the blood in the body and creates urine?
Compared with the molecules of many other substances, molecules of water are strongly attracted to what?
Greater reflection off what atmospheric layer allows am radio waves to travel even farther at night than they can during the day?
Earth spinning as air moves over its surface causes what?
Beryllium hydride consists of a central beryllium atom with two single bonds to what?
Amides are actually formed by bringing together an amine-containing molecule and molecule containing what?
What are long living plasma cells called?
When do homologous chromosomes separate and go to different gametes?
What type of cells are often the product of normal cells that have lost the ability to regulate the cell cycle?
Which ductless gland releases secretions directly into surrounding tissues and fluids?
When different types of tissues work together to perform a unique function, what do they form?
Over 90% of the energy we use comes originally from what?
What term is used to describe  an illusion that light from faraway objects is reflected by a pool of water that is not really there?
How do prokaryotes reproduce?
What does hemoglobin in blood carry to the cells?
Surface tension comes from the fact that particles at the surface of a liquid do not experience interactions from all directions which leads to what on the surface?
Where do biochemical reactions occer?
What type of behavior has the advantage of being flexible and capable of changing to suit changing conditions?
This process breaks rocks and other surface materials into much smaller pieces?
What is the main element in organic compounds?
What is the basic unit of matter?
What theory proposes that microorganisms are the cause of many diseases?
Water is a polar compound, so its molecules are attracted to each other and form what kind of bonds?
What is the term for a substance that causes the speed of a reaction to increase?
What is it called when rays focus at different distances from the lens?
Brass and bronze are examples of what type of mixture composed of two or more elements, at least one of which is a metal?
What is a region of repetitive noncoding nucleotide sequences at each end of a chromosome?
What is the color of mercury oxide?
At a convergent plate boundary, when one plate is oceanic, there are large what?
What is the term for the wavelengths of light humans can see?
What is the charge on a single electron known as?
What mineral that occurs in bones helps combat osteoporosis?
When the wind deposits sand, it forms small hills, what are these hills called?
Carboxylic acids have an acidic hydrogen atom, but esters do not. what do esters have in place of an acidic hydrogen atom?
Latitude, humidity, and elevation affect the type of what, a term for a large naturally occurring community?
The distance between two crests of a wave of light is referred to as what, which is related to the color of light?
What is the basic unit of structure and function in all organisms?
Which organ in the human body filters blood and excretes urine?
Sugars are simple types of what biochemical compounds and possess relatively small molecules?
What type of tissue is blood?
What is the force that causes objects to fall down to the ground?
The distance of stars is measured in what terms, meaning the light takes many thousands of years to reach us?
What type of matter often sinks into cracks between rocks?
Name a one-celled organism that  can be found on your skin, in the ground, or in all different types of water.
What type of power is generated using a nonrenewable resource?
The earth is tilted on its what?
What can human facial expressions communicate?
What are the two types of vascular plants?
What type of flexion is the bending of the neck or body toward the right or left side?
Common wisdom has it that the temporal bone (temporal = “time”) is so named because this area of the head (the temple) is where hair typically first turns gray, indicating the passage of what?
Catenulids typically reproduce asexually by budding where?
What gland secretes a fluid that mixes with sperm to help form semen?
During an earthquake what causes seismic waves?
What term describes waves that travel through matter?
What type of radioactive decay is generally only dangerous when emitted inside the body?
Energy that is stored in a person or object is called?
What is a sac filled with fluid or other material?
What is released during an enthalpy reaction?
Solutions of ionic compounds and melted ionic compounds conduct what?
Quantum mechanics involves the study of material at what level?
What is the name of muscular blood vessels that carry blood away from the heart?
He mass spectrometer measures the percent abundance of different what?
For what kind of animal is communication essential?
The wavelength of a wave is the distance between corresponding points on what?
Sandblasting a surface exemplifies what form of erosion?
How do fungus-like protists such as slime molds reproduce?
Exchange occurs directly with the external environment in what type of organisms?
Which part of a neuron contains the nucleus and most of the major organelles?
The oceans affect earth’s atmosphere and influence its what?
What are surrounded by a cell wall consisting of peptidoglycan?
Snake venom may join the class of drugs collectively known as thrombolytic agents, which can help speed up the degradation of an abnormal what?
Thousands of receptor cells that detect the sex attractant equip each filament of what structure?
All solutions contain at least how many substances?
Life probably began where?
An enzyme is an organic catalyst produced by what?
Gasoline is derived from which other liquid?
What is the disease in which cells grow out of control and form abnormal masses?
What travels at a rate of 300,000 kilometers per second, or nearly instantaneously?
When atomic orbitals hybridize, the valence electrons occupy these?
Roundworms feed on various things, one of them being decaying organic matter.  doing this, they play an important role in what famous cycle?
In preparation for phagocytosis, a portion of the inward-facing surface of the plasma membrane becomes coated with a protein called clathrin, which stabilizes this section of what?
What is the main form of energy storage in plants?
Something supplied by nature that helps support life, including ecosystems as well as minerals and fossil fuels, is called a what?
Initial substances are called reactants, and the final substances are called what?
What were the electrons initially called?
What is the type of energy that involves movement?
What do sharks use to secrete salt to assist in osmoregulation?
Why do viruses not belong to any domain of life?
What is a change in the sequence of bases in dna or rna called?
Metallic solids are composed entirely of which atoms?
What compound gives tarnished copper it's green color?
As the population grows, competition for food does what?
What is the property by which water molecules stick together?
What is the main sex hormone in males called?
What is the name of the tube that joins the mouth to the digestive and respiratory tracts?
Unlike bryophyte and fern spores (which are haploid cells dependent on moisture for rapid development of gametophytes), seeds contain a diploid embryo that will germinate into what?
Limestone is insoluble in water, so what can dissolve it?
Monatomic ions have an oxidation number equal to their what?
Some flatworms are free-living carnivores that live mainly in which type of habitats?
Characterized by a short lifespan, what begin with production in the bone marrow under the influence of csfs and interleukins?
What force is perpendicular to velocity and causes uniform circular motion?
What are physical properties that do not depend on the substance present called?
What does the secretion of the hormone cholecystokinin stimulate the release of?
What term is used to describe the electrostatic process used by most copy machines?
Symptoms of viral diseases result from what kind of response to a virus?
The most common carbon atoms have six protons and six neutrons in their what?
What type of organisms have internal clocks that regulate cyclic processes?
How often does condensation occur in your cells?
Overharvesting is a serious threat particularly to which species?
What are the cells that break down inorganic molecules to supply energy for the cell, and use carbon dioxide as a carbon source?
Each type of electromagnetic radiation has a characteristic range of wavelengths. the longer the wavelength (or the more stretched out it appears), the less energy is carried. short, tight waves carry what?
What are clouds on earth made of?
What do extensive properties depend on the amount of?
What is the term for the rate at which velocity changes?
What determines which codon in the mrna the trna will bind to?
What is the term for the complete set of genes and alleles within a population?
What unit of pressure is named for the scientist whose discoveries about pressure in fluids led to a law of the same name?
Oxygen and what are required for rust to form?
What is the process called in which a magnet loses its magnetic properties?
The earliest animals were which kind of invertebrates?
A lake is an example of what type of biome?
What kinds of waves are composed of various oscillating electric and magnetic fields?
When is the sun directly over the equator?
What does the base of a nucleotide within dna consist of?
Which bones are flat and triangular and located at the back of the pectoral girdle?
What always has the same elements in the same ratio?
Prior to ovulation, ovarian steroid hormones stimulate the uterus to prepare for support of what?
All polar compounds contain what type of bonds?
What often occurs on steep slopes in dry climates?
What kind of organisms have many different types of specialized cells with particular jobs?
Part of the scientific process, these are statistical probabilities rather than certainties?
Ecology is a major branch of what higher-level "classification" of science?
What is necessary for organisms to survive in the deepest parts of the ocean?
What is the process of larva becoming an adult called?
Capillaries rejoin to form venules, which convey blood to what?
Although it is not vital to humans, calcitonin is important for calcium homeostasis in adults of some species in what group characterized by backbones?
What force holds planets in their orbits?
The nature of what gives metals the properties of being ductile and malleable?
What are the special compartments that are surrounded by membranes inside eukaryotic cells called?
Molds and casts usually form in which type of rock?
What is a hole that is dug or drilled through the ground down to an aquifer called?
When is a moving car said to be in dynamic equilibrium?
Every chemical reaction between molecules involves breaking and forming of what?
The mass percentage of a solution component is defined as the ratio of the component’s mass to ________?
Harmful instances of what can result in errors in protein sequence that yield non-functional proteins?
When dissolved in water, the base sodium hydroxide (naoh) produces sodium ions with what charge?
What precious resource allows us to grow food as well as materials we turn into clothing and medicine?
In what part of the body do escherichia coli bacteria live?
Which state of matter has an intermediate level of entropy between solid and gas?
In recent years, it has been hypothesized that molecules in the environment also act as?
What is the diversity of living things called?
All lipids have two distinct domains, a hydrophobic and a what?
Oxytocin, which stimulates the contractions of labor, is a type of what?
When represented by a single letter dominant alleles are represented by what case letter?
What do loess deposits form?
Electrical messages are carried by chemicals called what?
Another major cause of extinction is global warming , which is also known as?
What shape rash is formed from a skin infection caused by trichophyton?
What type of bonds only form in metals?
The last major ice age took place in which era?
What signals the secretion of gastric acid?
Each microspore develops into a pollen grain containing a male what?
What is used to describe gas concentrations of a solution?
What type of organism has many different specialized cells that work together to carry out life processes?
What types of bonds hold together positive metal ions and their valence electrons?
The once compressed universe expanded rapidly after what nicknamed event billions of years ago?
Do metals tend to gain electrons or lose electrons in chemical reactions?
Living things evolve what characteristics that make them better suited for their environment?
Where are the two tonsils located?
The chemistry of each element is determined by its number of what?
What is defined as the amount of force acting on a given area?
Which type of energy is the energy of anything in motion?
What are large sheets of ice that cover relatively flat ground called?
What is the accelerating pattern of increasing population size called?
Ions can be formed when atoms lose what other particles?
Deserts are generally dry ecosystems having very little what?
The average number of individuals per unit of area can be expressed as what?
The top 200 meters of water is called what zone?
A homogeneous mixture with tiny particles in it is known as what?
What is the term for decomposers that consume dead leaves, animal feces, and other organic debris collected on the ground or at the bottom of water?
If a gas in a closed area experiences increases in pressure and decreases in temperatures, what other attribute of the gas will be affected?
What is the term for the hard covering that protects insects, crustaceans, and spiders?
What gas is expired out of the body during exhalation?
Through this process, algae provide glucose for the ecosystem?
What determines your hair color trait?
What layer of skin is directly under the epidermis?
What is caused by bodies sliding over rough surfaces?
The electromagnetic spectrum represents the full range of frequency of what type of wave?
Distinguishing between homology and analogy is critical in reconstructing what?
What do many mollusks secrete for their protection?
What were the first particles with mass to be directly confirmed to have the wavelength proposed by de broglie?
What is a simple machine that consists of a rope wrapped around a grooved wheel?
What helps screen libraries for a gene of interest using nucleic acid hybridization?
What is one way of classifying organisms called?
The earliest stages of spermatogenesis occur closest to the lumen of the what?
Which of the electromagnetic waves have the shortest wavelengths and highest frequencies?
The oxidation of an alcohol can produce either an aldehyde or what?
Change in momentum in an object is equivalent to what other measurement?
Where does most water evaporate from?
Which waves have the longest wavelengths but the least energy in the atmosphere?
The effect of gravity on circulation means that it is harder to get blood up from the legs as the body takes on this?
Red blood cells, white blood cells and what other cell is found in blood?
How many dimensions can humans see in?
What do you call the unhealthy synthetic lipids created when unsaturated fatty acids are artificially manufactured to have straight chains?
In what type of climate might one find deciduous trees?
Cellular respiration involves forming atp from what type of sugar?
The magnitude of the wave function at a particular point in space is proportional to what property of the wave at that point?
Representing a leap in scientific understanding, einstein described what as a dent in the fabric of space and time?
Green algae and land plants are closely what?
How many alleles control a characteristic?
All living things are able to produce what?
What is the smallest volcanic landform that is formed from accumulation of many small fragments of ejected material?
What are surface currents mainly caused by?
What kind of solids are generally classified by the forces that hold their particles together and include ionic, metallic, covalent network, and molecular types?
What can often be used to measure distance?
Which single most factor is responsible for the extinction of hundreds of species of birds?
The differing glycosidic linkages in starch and cellulose give the two molecules what kind of distinct shapes?
What is the angiosperm seed surrounded by?
Which process helps bacteria in the gut break down the remains of the digested food?
Unlike wild animals, what type of species are genetically uniform, making them more vulnerable to die-out from disease?
The diapsids diverged into two groups, the archosauromorpha (“ancient lizard form”) and the lepidosauromorpha (“scaly lizard form”) during what time period?
A few elements, called what, can conduct electricity, but not as well as metals?
Which type of eruptions created the entire ocean floor?
What is damaged in the inner ear by loud sounds that cause hearing loss?
The energy in sunlight is also known as what kind of energy?
In what form is the heat absorbed when you heat ice and it reaches a temperature of 0 c?
The sugar of one nucleotide binds to what group of the next nucleotide?
How does the image focused by the eye travel to the brain?
If a human only has 45 chromosomes it is most likely due to a mistake during what?
The digestive organs within the abdominal cavity are held in place by the peritoneum, a broad serous membranous sac made up of squamous epithelial tissue surrounded by this?
What season causes people to look forward to spring?
What are the narrowest blood vessels, where oxygen is transferred into body cells?
What is quantified by measuring the number of decay processes per unit time?
What is a measure of the force of gravity pulling on an object of a given mass?
What is the atomic number?
Some isotopes are stable indefinitely, while others are radioactive and do what through a characteristic form of emission?
Cellular respiration uses oxygen to harvest what from organic molecules?
A red blood cell will swell and burst when placed in a?
Which type of lava lavas are less viscous and erupt effusively?
What are often formed biologically during the breakdown of proteins in animal cells, having the smell of death and decay?.
What produces the centripetal force to keep the earth orbiting the sun?
Group 13 of the periodic table is also called what?
What type of tissue transports water and minerals in a vascular plant?
What produces enzymes that digest carbohydrates in plant cell walls?
At what temperature does solid water melt to a liquid?
How many more legs do spiders have compared to insects?
Almost all energy at earth's surface comes from where?
What is the first step in protein synthesis?
What branch of biology focuses on heredity?
Stars are born in clouds, and they form and grow dense due to what force?
What has atoms with unstable nuclei?
What is the tissue beneath a mollusks' shell called?
What is formed from an alcohol that loses water?
What is the division of the body into multiple parts called?
What reproductive method has two parents involved?
In many cases, the alkali metal amide salt (mnh2) is not very soluble in liquid ammonia and does what?
An example of beta decay is the emission of an electron by a carbon-14 what?
Which theory describes the distribution of electrons in molecules in much the same way that the distribution of electrons in atoms is described using atomic orbitals?
Oversecretion of insulin can cause what?
The first few species to colonize a disturbed area are called what?
What are the two loops of blood flow in the cardiovascular system?
What is the name of a group of hereditary diseases that affect the body's ability to control blood clotting?
Protists which use their tails to eat are called what?
What term is used to describe foods containing active cultures of beneficial bacteria?
What helps control the muscles and maintain balance?
What unit of power is equal to 1 joule of energy per second?
What is just below the cerebrum and coordinates body movements?
What part of blood releases clotting factors?
Adding carbon to iron makes what type of metal?
Which structure includes sugar-phosphate "backbones", composed of alternating phosphate groups and deoxyribose sugars, and nitrogenous bases?
In a hydrogen replacement reaction, the hydrogen in the acid is replaced by what?
Mitosis and meiosis are both forms of division of the nucleus in these?
What is the last step in a scientific investigation?
Where is multiple fission more often observed?
What type of invertebrates where the earliest animals?
Unlike wood and glass, steel is an example of a material that responds to what force?
Carefully controlling the speed of a fission reaction produces what kind of energy?
When two electric contacts come together it completes a what?
Pure nonpolar covalent bonds exist only between what?
The decay rate is measured in a unit called the what?
What is a condition in which a material called plaque builds up inside arteries?
Quarks in the middle energy family are found in cosmic rays and are produced in what?
What celestial body in the solar system makes up most of its total mass?
Free ear lobes, widow's peak and a dimpled chin are examples of what kind of traits in humans?
Producing light without heat is called what?
What natural part of the water cycle can cause damage and death?
How many large eggs are generated during oogenesis?
Gaseous nitrogen is converted into forms that can be used by plants during a process called what?
What is an example of a disease that affects the blood?
Name the term used to described prokaryotes that require oxygen.
Many ionic compounds with relatively large cations and a 1:1 cation:anion ratio have this structure, which is called the what?
What property increases as an object's mass increases, making a full box harder to push than an empty one?
What will happen to sea levels due to increased global temperatures?
Sea-lilies, sea cucumbers and sea stars fall into what class of organism?
What kind of rock forms when material such as gravel, sand, silt or clay is compacted and cemented together?
In science, we need to make observations on various phenomena to form and test what?
What do industries use water to generate?
Mammals are synapsids, meaning they have a single opening in what structure?
What are the properties of solutions called that depend only on the concentration of dissolved particles and not on their identity?
Liquids that mix with each other in all proportions are said to be miscible, maning they have infinite mutual what?
Which law relates the pressure, volume, and temperature of a gas?
Heat and light are forms of what, which refers to the ability to do work?
Volcano chains form as an oceanic plate moves over what?
What type of planet is jupiter?
What does antifreeze do to the freezing temperature of the water in car radiators?
What process typically occurs to metal exposed to outside elements?
The innermost layer of the sun is known as what?
Motor neurons and sensory neurons are part of what nervous system?
What type of science is the study of matter and energy and includes chemistry and physics?
When plants lose their leaves in the fall, what chemical is produced less to cause the change?
In which kind of animals does parthenogenesis occur?
What is the name of the temporary organ that begins to form from the trophoblast layer of cells shortly after implantation?
What term is used to describe anything that takes up space and has mass?
What is the organ that senses sound?
What can be described in terms of size, density, and distribution?
What is the term for the simplest form of matter that has a unique set of properties?
What causes light to refract?
Capacitors can be used to filter out low frequencies. for example, a capacitor in series with a sound reproduction system rids it of the 60 hz what?
What is made up of nerve cells that sense stimuli and transmit signals?
Some animals prepare for the long winter by going into what?
It may seem as though burning destroys matter, but the same amount of what, still exists after a campfire as before?
Different isotopes of an element have different mass numbers because they have different numbers of what?
Density is defined as the mass of an object divided by its what?
What element is responsible for one-half of the osmotic pressure gradient that exists between the interior of cells and their surrounding environment?
What types of orbits do comets usually have?
What describes how close an estimate is to a known standard?
Canoe paddles, nutcracker, and hammer are examples of what type of simple machine?
What do most species of monkeys have that no apes or humans do?
What are joints in which the bones are connected by a band of connective tissue?
What are the four stages of food processing?
What are different forms of the same gene?
What is the wheeled robot developed by nasa to explore the surface of mars?
What effect does taking anabolic steroids have on testosterone production?
Living in a large colony requires good communication. ants communicate with chemicals called what?
What complex carbohydrates are the polymers of glucose?
What is the term for the shallow space above the zygomatic arch in a skull?
What is the inner layer of skin called?
Many european and asiatic elms are less susceptible to dutch elm disease than which elms?
What does a thermometer measure?
What are plant-like protists called?
What is a series of processes that remove unwanted substances from water called?
Original atoms are called what type of isotopes?
What do you call an area covered with water, or possessing very soggy soil, all or part of the year?
In which continent are meerkats most likely to be found?
What is the name of the thin layer that acts as a boundary between the stratosphere and the mesosphere?
What is the process of removing wastes and excess water from the body?
Which measure shows how individuals in a population are distributed, or spread throughout their area?
What is a simple carbohydrate with the chemical formula c 6 h 12 o 6 better known as?
Groups of related organs form what?
Each lymph organ has a different job in what system?
The number of protons in an atom is called what?
Crevasses are found in glaciers.  how do these come about?
Combining nonpolar olive oil and polar vinegar yields what type of mixture?
If no conclusion is reached after an experiment, the scientist may retest what?
What builds up in an artery and reduces blood flow?
Compounds with metals and nonmetals sharing electrons are known as what kinds of compounds?
What are the only organisms that can perform photosynthesis?
What is an interesting example of a molecule with two central atoms, which are both c atoms?
What is the name of the fungi that are ubiquitous in lakes and soil?
All the atoms of a given element have the same number of what in their nucleus, though they may have different numbers of neutrons?
What causes a voltage to exist across the membrane in cells?
A synergist that makes the insertion site more stable is called a what?
What system of the body is generally responsible for breathing?
Carbon dioxide does not rise like other gases because it has a density greater than what?
What is the property that determines the amount of current flow through a particular material?
In glycolysis, glucose is split into two molecules of pyruvate. this results in a net gain of?
What organ do we use to hear sound?
Mixture of metals is called what?
The rate the magma cools determines what property of the rock?
Conduction from the core has what effect on the lower mantle?
What is the measure of the amount of energy found in sound waves?
What theory explains most of the features of earth’s surface?
What part of a person with myopia is longer than normal?
The anodes in each cell of a rechargeable battery are plates or grids of lead containing spongy lead metal, while the cathodes are similar grids containing powdered what?
In science, what is supported by much evidence, widely accepted by credible scientists, and unlikely to be disproved?
Life on earth is carbon-based. organisms need not only energy but also carbon ________ for building bodies?
A crater can usually be found on the top of what kind of volcanoes?
Portal veins carry blood between what?
Viruses depend on what type of cells?
Silver and ordinary table salt are two examples of chemical what?
What do we call the system of classification consisting of a hierarchy of groupings called taxa?
Which disease causes cells to divide out of control
Animal cells grow mainly by synthesizing protein-rich cytoplasm, a process that is described as expensive in what way?
Where is the cell wall located?
Some protists hunt their food or act as what?
Name what nutrient cycling is strongly regulated by.
Why must values of specific heat be looked up in tables?
What is the method of evolution by which advantageous heritable traits become more common over generations?
Electrons move, but they aren’t destroyed. this is the law of conservation of what?
What type of orbitals do electrons in successive atoms on the periodic table tend to fill first?
What is used as a vector for gene insertion in ex vivo gene therapy?
In artificial passive immunization, which items from an immune animal are injected into a nonimmune animal?
What kind of solids are gummi bears or taffy?
In the freshwater flatworms, protonephridia serve chiefly in what?
What is contained in the skin of brightly colored poison dart frogs?
What is the exchange of plasmids by prokaryotes called?
What do we call the study of rock layers?
What are single-celled organisms that lack a nucleus called?
The distance that light can travel in a year is known as what?
Scientists who find and study fossils are called what?
What is it called when feces move along the colon too slowly?
What is the process in which a solid changes directly to a gas called?
What part of the atmosphere is the heat source?
Some mutations lead to new versions of proteins that help organisms adapt to changes in their environment and are essential for evolution to occur.  what are these mutations known as?
What is the only substance on earth that is stable in all three states?
What is the process whereby excess water and waste is removed from the body?
What cellular structure moves molecules between locations inside the cell?
Alcohols can be oxidized to aldehydes or _______.
What causes a meteoroid to vaporize after it enters the atmosphere?
How is the radioactive decay measured?
What term means a reproductive cell, like the human egg in females?
Veins are blood vessels that carry blood toward what?
The spin quantum number describes the spin for a given what?
What fuels provide most of the energy used worldwide?
What instruments used in guidance systems to indicate directions in space must have an angular momentum that does not change in direction?
What are the deepest places on earth?
While the chromosome is replicating, the cell does what?
On the origin of species is a book by darwin that spells out what theory?
After an adaptive defense is produced against a pathogen, typically plasma cells first secrete immunoglobin, which constitutes about ten percent of all what?
Solar and wind are still expensive compared to what?
The pollen tube discharges two sperm into the female gametophyte after what occurs?
Steel, bronze, and brass are good examples of what?
Most hydrozoa have both polyp and what forms in their life cycle?
Mammalian lungs are located in what cavity, where they are surrounded and protected by the rib cage, intercostal muscles, and chest wall?
Segmented worms have a digestive,nervous and what type of system?
In what route do water and solutes move along the continuum of cytosol?
Atomic orbitals are populated with what subatomic particles?
Which law refers to the electron charge remaining the same during transfer?
Hotspots can be used to tell the speed and direction that what object is moving?
Does overhead irrigation or drip irrigation use less water?
Stis are diseases caused by what that spread through sexual contact?
The heart is a muscular organ that pumps blood through which system?
Being dependent on adults for a long maturation period allows young primates ample time for what?
What process can be triggered by a burst of ethylene production in the fruit?
What is a sac-like organ  that stores urine?
When the pressure waves from the scala move the basilar membrane, the tectorial membrane slides across the what?
What are surface currents generally caused by?
What helps cells take up glucose from the blood?
What is the term for potential energy due to the position of an object above earth?
What type of engineers influence community structure through their effects on the physical environment?
The atomic number defines the identity of what?
The nuclei of radioisotopes are unstable, so they constantly decay and emit what?
Parthenogenesis is the most common form of what in animals that at other times reproduce sexually?
What kind of fossils are excellent markers for correlating the ages of sedimentary rocks?
Gated ion channels have a central role in what system's function?
Energy that the sun and other stars release into space is called what?
Hydrogen gas is generated by the reaction of nitric acid and what else?
What is the top 200 meters of water in the ocean called?
Zinc is what kind of metal.?
What do decomposers release when they break down dead organisms?
Wavelengths are described by a unit of what?
Chlamydia, gonorrhea, and syphilis are examples of which type of sti?
Which process acts as a natural complement for cellular respiration?
What are the only invertebrates that can fly?
What is the term for the cell fragments involved in blood clotting, which stick to tears in blood vessels and to each other?
What celestial body is often discovered because it causes a star to move or to dim?
What shape is the lens of the eye?
What is the change frogs and butterflies go through?
What term is used to describe the attractive force between molecules of the same substance?
Where do archea live?
What is the 'stuff' that all things are made of?
What is the change of characteristics of living things over time?
What is the si unit for electric current?
What abbreviated form refers to oxidation-reduction reactions, which are part of respiration and photosynthesis?
In a cell cycle, what kind of regulator molecules allow advancement to the next stage?
What are kpa, atm, and mmhg measurement units for?
Each month, starting in puberty, one egg matures and is released from where?
Synostoses unite the sacral vertebrae that fuse together to form the what?
What eliminates food wastes that remain after digestion takes place?
What is the membrane that surrounds a fetus called?
What is the long-term average of weather in a particular spot called?
What are the three most common elements in the air we breathe?
Cirrus, stratus, and cumulus are the main types of what?
Lymphatic capillaries are interlaced with the arterioles and venules of which system?
What is required for communication?
When gametes unite during fertilization, the resulting zygote inherits two of what for each gene, one from each parent?
What provides an early, rapid, and nonspecific defense against invading pathogens?
In a mammal the front part of the brain is called the what?
What term is used to describe joints in which the bones are connected by cartilage?
What type of tissue is made up of cells that have the unique ability to contract?
Recent fossil evidence has shown that the evolutionary divergence of what group from other land animals was characterized by streamlining and simplifying the digestive system, which allowed a high metabolic rate?
Probability can be used to predict the chance of gametes and offspring having certain what?
What happens to the reaction rate over the course of a reaction?
The first reported nuclear fission occurred in 1939 when three german scientists bombarded uranium-235 atoms with slow-moving what?
What are temporary feet that protists have called?
Predicting the possible genotypes and phenotypes from a genetic cross is often aided by a what?
What is a relationship between organisms that strive for the same resources in the same place?
What is a collection of lymphatic tissue that combines with epithelial tissue lining the mucosa throughout the body?
What is the term for individuals of a species that live in a particular habitat?
Which gas moves from the blood in the capillaries into the air?
What makes the halogen group so diverse?
What type of dating determines which of two fossils is older or younger than the other but not their age in years?
The timing of events in what cycle - which lasts just minutes in fruit fly embryos - is controlled by mechanisms that are both internal and external to the cell?
Is wind power renewable or non renewable?
What is the principal cell of connective tissues?
What occurs when a few individuals start, or found, a new population?
When animals use incubation, how do they generally give birth to their young?
What two-word term refers to the number of different species in the community?
Two events are defined to be simultaneous if an observer measures them as occurring at what?
The force of attraction or repulsion between charged particles is called what?
What important function do bees perform on garden plants and many commercial fruit trees?
What do ecosystems require constant inputs of?
What is the final stage of aerobic respiration?
What is the lightest molecule?
The genome of an organism consists of one or more what?
Where are free-living roundworms mainly found?
What do you call any force that makes something move in a circle?
The two parameters used to measure changes in ecosystems are resistance and what related factor?
In humans, the first sites used for energy storage are liver and what else?
What are electrons at the outermost energy level of an atom are called?
Reaching conclusions about unobserved things on the basis of what has already been observed is known as what kind of reasoning?
The molecular formula is still c 4 h 10 , which is the same formula as?
A structure composed of two or more types of tissues that work together to perform the same function is called?
All cells undergo what during a lifetime, but when this process is out of control, cancer results?
Amylase and pepsin are examples of enzymes needed for what process?
What two words describe the debate over whether behaviors are caused by genetics or by environment?
Why do comet tails always point away from the sun instead of trailing behind the comet?
What is the term for the average number of individuals in a population per unit of area or volume?
Gibbs free energy values can be used to determine what?
Creep, which usually takes place where the ground freezes and thaws frequently, involves movement of particles due to what force?
Which parasite causes downy mildew in grape plants?
What property is defined as the magnitude or size of displacement between two positions?
Endosperm usually develops before the what does?
What is the term for geological activity that occurs within a plate?
What is a three-dimensional anticline called?
Electrical energy consumed can be expressed as the product of power multiplied by what else?
What is the name for a substance that can be used to follow the pathway of that substance through some structure?
What do osteoclasts do to bone?
What do tube worms rely on for food?
Size is a general feature of cell structure that relates to?
Altitude is height above what?
Conservation of what property of ecosystems is the aim of measures like the endangered species act?
Nearly all rocks are made of what?
What type of cell division produces gametes?
Where are feces formed?
What measurement of the wave is used to determine the magnitude of an earthquake?
In a food chain, only about 10 percent of what passes to the next level?
In plants, a high concentration of iaa inhibits what?
The rate of heat transfer by radiation is largely determined by what?
Comparisons of amino acid sequences can shed light on the evolutionary divergence of what?
How high or low a sound seems is associated with what property of the sound?
Alveolar ducts and broncioles are developing parts of what organ system?
During photosynthesis what organelle is used by plants to change sunlight into chemical energy?
Small water bodies often fed by springs are called what?
The combustion of propane gas produces carbon dioxide and what else?
Tremetol, a metabolic poison found in the white snake root plant, prevents the metabolism of what?
Water, carbon dioxide, and what other element are important agents of chemical weathering?
Deserts and forests are examples of what type of biome?
Lampreys use their sucker to feed on what part of other fish species?
Nonflowering vascular plants have how many basic types of leaves?
Somatosensation includes all sensation received from the skin and mucous membranes, as well as from these?
What is the only class of animals that has hair?
What is the muscular organ that nourishes and supports the growing embryo?
The smallest cyclic ether is called what?
Dialysis is a medical process of removing wastes and excess water from the blood by diffusion and ultrafiltration. when kidney function fails, dialysis must be done to artificially rid the body of this?
What is the study of how living things interact with each other and with their environment?
What is a continuous flow of electric charge called?
How many years can dissolved carbon be stored in the deep ocean?
What effect causes winds and currents to form circular patterns?
What type of sunlight inhibits vertical growth in a plant?
Why does ice wedging occur?
Are humans a new or old species on the earth?
What kind of surface would cause diffusion when light is reflected off of it?
What are plants called that grow where you don't want them?
Who proposed that everything in the universe exerts a force of attraction on everything else?
Living organisms are comprised of organic compounds, which are molecules built around what element?
Which mineral do native americans use to decorate items?
Glycolysis oxidizes glucose to two molecules of pyruvate?
What's the most common disorder from having an extra chromosome?
What type of respiration does not use oxygen?
Besides depth soundings, what else are bathymetric maps made of?
A cell with two sets of chromosomes is called a?
On the ventral side of the embryonic disc, opposite the amnion, cells in the lower layer of the embryonic disk (the hypoblast) extend into the blastocyst cavity and form this?
Pairs of fish that do not practice broadcast what may exhibit courtship behavior?
The van allen radiation belts are two regions in which energetic charged particles are trapped in earth’s what?
What is the lowest level of organism that can perform all activities required for life?
What umbrella term describes small structures that exist within cells and perform specialized functions?
What is the continental margin made of?
What happens to gas solubility as the temperature increases?
What forms when a glacier scrapes a large hole in the ground?
What branch of science holds hope for developing crops with genes that help them withstand harsh conditions?
In eukaryotic cells, where is the dna kept?
What is a measure of the amount of space that a substance or an object occupies?
What nucleic acid stores the genetic information?
Molds growing on foods are a common type of what organisms that play very important roles in almost every terrestrial ecosystem on earth?
What of a electromagnetic wave can be calculated using the wave equation due to their speed always being constant?
Because of the wave character of matter, the idea of well-defined orbits gives way to a model in which there is a cloud of what?
Metabolism is controlled by regulation of what?
A catalytic converter filters pollutants in exhaust created by burning what before releasing it into the air?
What are the two components of the ecf?
A quarry, which produces rocks and minerals used to make buildings and roads, is an example of what type of mine?
Along with other organelles, all eukaryotic cells possess what structure?
The environment where most chemical reactions in organisms takes place consists mostly of what?
The main functions of epithelia are protection from the environment, coverage, secretion and excretion, absorption, and this?
What term is defined as the preserved remains or traces of organisms that lived during earlier ages?
What rigid external structure protects shellfish and other animals and provides points of attachment for the muscles that move the appendages?
The electronic components in electronic devices, used to transmit and change electricity are made of?
Vaccinations are designed to boost immunity to a virus to prevent this?
How many sets of chromosomes do gametes contain?
What is the term for the energy of motion, which is exhibited by the speed of an object?
Soil that forms in place over a very long period is called what?
Alpha and beta decay occur when a nucleus has too many protons or an unstable ratio of what?
What do you call an abnormal mass of cells that is dividing improperly?
What is an example of a biochemical lipid that contributes to weight gain?
The rate that energy is released is known as
A low level of radiation occurs naturally in the environment and is called what?
Most of the heat that enters the mesosphere comes from where?
What is the natural movement called within your intestines?
What does the stomach produce to help digest food?
What type of plants have vascular tissue but do not have seeds?
After ovulation occurs, the moving “fingers” of what nearby structure sweep the egg into its tube?
Alterations that change chromosome structure are known as?
Membranes will become increasingly what as temperatures rise?
Catabolism and anabolism are the two types of what?
What types of incest behaviors are controlled by genes?
What term describes a specific statement that is thought to be never violated by the entire natural universe?
When do female reproductive organs mature?
What are the extremely small particles that comprise all matter?
What are the two basic types of combustion engines?
Plasmodesmata passes through what part of plants?
What element has an atomic number of 6?
What common sea creature can be both awake and asleep at the same time?
What is the second stage of cellular respiration?
As a battery is depleted what happens to its internal resistance?
What is a condition where plants are grown in mineral solutions without soil called?
What is the scientific name for the human species?
Snippet 3: the diploid cells resulting from karyogamy are short-lived and undergo meiosis, producing what?
Average speed is equal to distance divided by what?
When a supercooled liquid boils, the temperature drops as the liquid is converted to what?
What process produces four haploid daughter cells, each genetically unique?
What is root that does not arise from a usual place?
In which period of the periodic table is nickel found?
What serves as the control center of the nervous system?
What is the name for the term that describes deep ocean water rising the surface?
What is the measure for how fast or slow something moves?
What is the term for the decayed remains of living organisms?
What happens when materials return to their original shape?
Dna segments cross over to form what kind of chromosome?
Typically hard, high-melting solids that conduct heat and electricity well, the transition elements have many properties in common with other what?
Programmed cell death, which goes by what term, is important for removing damaged or unnecessary cells?
What elements do mafic minerals typically include?
During what time period did poor air quality become a problem?
All living organisms must have what ability, in order to make more organisms like themselves?
If a solute is a gas, increasing the temperature will do what?
The fetus becoming relatively large and mature before birth increases the chances of what?
What item starts puberty in girls?
Protein digestion begins in the stomach as pepsinogen in gastric juice is converted to pepsin, the enzyme that hydrolyzes this?
What lipid, added to certain foods to keep them fresher longer, increases the risk of heart disease?
What occurs in a population when its allele frequencies change over time?
What do some animals use for shelter?
In statistics a boundary on the precision and accuracy is known as what?
How many limbs do all mammals have?
More common in developing countries, parasitic diseases caused by roundworms often result from poor practice of what?
What type of bacteria stains red?
The shapes of minerals form as they are broken along what planes?
An atomic symbol is used to represent what?
Mammals can feed at various levels of food chains, as herbivores, insectivores, carnivores and what else?
What are winds that blow over a limited area called?
Descending fibers from the cerebrum have branches that connect to neurons in the pons. those neurons project into the cerebellum, providing a copy of motor commands sent to this?
An element is defined by the number of ____ it contains?
What term is used to describe the distance traveled divided by the time it took to travel that distance?
Which gas is released by the group of archaea known as methanogens?
Of the four main wobble base pairs, guanine is paired with what?
The atoms of a compound are held together by what type of bonds?
Unlike energy, what happens to matter in ecosystems?
The anion is the methanoate ion, which is commonly called the what?
Drinking too much water too fast can lead to what potentially fatal condition, which causes dangerous changes to salt levels?
When electrons move from one atom to another, they become what?
Another way to classify matter is to describe it as a solid, a liquid, or a gas, which was done in the examples of solutions. these three descriptions, each implying that the matter has certain physical properties, represent the three of these?
What is the health-threatening smoke exhaled by a cigarette smoker or released from tobacco products?
Why do waves travel faster through solids?
What is the point on the ground that is located directly above where underground rocks fracture (or the "focus" point)?
When atoms gain or lose electrons, they can form electrically charged particles called what?
What do you call a pure substance that cannot be broken down into different types of substances?
Natural selection can only take place if there is variation, or differences, among individuals in a population. importantly, these differences must have some genetic basis; otherwise, the selection will not lead to change in this?
The large hadron collider is the biggest type of what invention, which boosts particles to high energies?
Metals, metalloids, and nonmetals are the different classes of what?
What holds homologs together as the spindle forms for the first meiotic division?
In the periodic table, elements are arranged from left to right according to what property?
What is made of gases that are essential for photosynthesis and other life activities?
When a stream flows from a hard to  soft rock area, what is often formed?
What term means taking used items and materials and turning them into something new?
What lets different species of anole lizards live in the same area without competing?
What are made in the first step of the scientific method?
What type of organisms do not need blood?
What type of plants are the mosses, the hornwarts, and the liverworts considered to be?
Wearing what will reduce the amplitude of sound waves entering the ears?
What type of motion only occurs when there is one force applied at the beginning of the trajectory after which there is no interference apart from gravity?
What type of energy is produced when two objects move together?
Which form of matter assumes the shape of its container?
What type of energy is possessed by autumn leaves before they fall?
The heterotroph eats only or mainly what?
All carbon atoms have how many protons?
The cerebellum is associated with what major human organ?
The kinetic energy of a moving object depends on it's mass and it's what?
Electromagnetic waves are comprised of what two types of energy?
Cranial nerves convey specific sensory information from the head and neck directly to what organ?
Where are the viral enzyme and genome packaged inside?
What would cause warm receptors to signal the hypothalamic thermostat?
The direction of the force of gravity is in what direction?
Sickle-cell anemia, leukemia, lymphoma, and hemophilia are examples of what types of disease?
In hypothesis-based science, specific results are predicted from a general premise, which is called what type of reasoning that proceeds from general to particular?
The process by which an organism develops from a single-celled zygote to a multi-cellular organism is complex and well regulated. the regulation occurs through signaling between cells and tissues and responses in the form of what?
The development of specific structures in specific locations is called what?
An experiment generates what to support a hypothesis?
What is the outermost occupied shell of electrons in an atom.
What ear structure has three fluid filled ducts, including the organ of corti, where sound waves in air go to vibration?
What is the name for elements that neither contain carbon nor come from living things?
Kinetic energy is energy of this?
Reproduction in prokaryotic cells is by what process of growth, enlargement and division?
Why do some dry fruits split open at maturity?
What is an ionic bond in nature?
Most air masses form over what two types of regions?
Earthworms are important deposit feeders that help form and enrich what material?
Growth, morphogenesis, and cell differentiation produce the plant what?
What is a fold of the outer skin lining the shell called?
What sciences are the study of living organisms?
Frogs are amphibians that live part of the time in fresh water and rest of the time where?
Name the missing type of friction: static, rolling, fluid _____?
What is the study of how living organisms interact with each other and with their environment?
What are electrons lost during the formation of ions called?
Making a specific statement based on a general principle is the definition of what type of reasoning?
The earth's magnetic poles have done what repeatedly in the past?
What do we call the orderly sequence of events in the life of a cell from the division of a single parent cell to produce two new daughter cells, to the subsequent division of those daughter cells?
What are natural resources which can be replaced in a relatively short period called?
The biological electron transport chain provides for an orderly, stepwise transfer of electrons. both nadh (reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide) and fadh2 (reduced flavin adenine dinucleotide) are energy rich molecules that liberate a large amount of energy during what?
The cells within meristems divide relatively frequently, generating additional what?
Another unit of energy, used widely in the health professions and everyday life, is _______?
What are the specfic types of proteins that determine your blood type called?
Which layer of soil experiences the most weathering?
Osteoporosis, osteoarthritis, fractures, and sprains are problems affecting what system?
What are typically arranged into complex tubular networks with extensive surface areas?
What is the simplest unit of structure and function of all living organisms called?
Activities that can reduce the effects of what condition include exercises to keep the blood and lymph flowing through affected areas?
An alloy is a mixture of metals that has bulk metallic properties different from those of its what?
There are two types of digestion, mechanical and what else?
What is the rate at which energy is being transferred called?
Where does the process of assembling amino acids into a protein take place?
Where can you find sodium acetate?
For a given amount of solute, do smaller particles have a greater or lesser surface area?
What is the functional unit of compact bone?
Mineralocorticoids are hormones synthesized by the adrenal cortex that affect what balance, by regulating sodium and water levels?
The pulmonary circulation carries blood between what two organs?
The ancient greek philosopher aristotle thought that all matter consists of just four what, which he identified as earth, air, water, and fire?
What are archaea that live in extremely hot environments called?
Warming conditions and, perhaps, human activities contributed to what fate of many organisms of the pleistocene era?
Practical limits of van de graaff generators arise because the large electric fields polarize and eventually do what to surrounding materials?
The remainder is transferred by contraction of what before the ventricles begin to contract?
Chromatin condenses into chromosomes during prophase, the first and longest phase of what process?
What do plants lose the most of through the stomata?
Unburned hydrocarbons can more easily be converted to carbon dioxide and water in the presence of a what?
What do plasmodesmata connect to in the plant cell?
What are compounds composed of only two elements called?
What type of gases trap heat in the atmosphere, causing earth to have a moderate temperature?
What system is the brain the control center of?
Air pollution can cause disease of what system by affecting the health of your lungs?
Why does the body react to a loss of chloride ions?
The negatively charged electrons are attracted to the positively charged what?
Most of the gray matter is on the surface of the brain, surrounding what other type of matter?
Cooling or evaporation of what from the sea surface makes surface water dense?
What is the term for reproductive cells, such as sperm and egg?
What material is regularly used in human hip and knee implants?
What are the most dramatic, sudden, and dangerous types of mass wasting?
What current-carrying long coil of wire acts as a magnet?
In combination or synthesis reactions, two chemical species combine to produce a what?
The core of a star collapses during what event, forming a neutron star?
What is the term used for a large body of air of the same temperature and moisture conditions?
The loss of oxygen to the heart muscle causes that part of the tissue to what?
What system transports many substances to and from cells throughout the body?
What consists of two or more elements and forms as a result of a chemical reaction?
What is occasional chest pain known as?
In the cardiovascular system, where is the ultimate destination of the oxygen-poor blood?
What is the study of the energy transformations that occur in a collection of matter?
Love canal was an infamous example of what type of pollution?
What is a funnel-shaped cloud of whirling high winds known as?
Why do birds need a light-weight body?
Asthma, pneumonia, and emphysema are diseases of what system?
The “knee-jerk" motion that people involuntarily perform after being struck in the knee in a certain way is an example of what kind of behavior?
What are tiny, hair like projections?
How long does it take for the earth to make a complete rotation of its axis?
Glaciers have been melting since what period?
The transmission electron micrograph shows the cell walls where two cells do what?
What form does water take on the planet mars?
The simplest system is that of contractile vacuoles present in what?
Water's very polar compound causes most solutes to do what?
Which plant group has vascular tissue, seeds, and flowers?
The point in front of a mirror where the reflected rays intersect is known as what?
Any unused energy in food, whether it comes from carbohydrates, proteins, or lipids, is stored in the body where?
What helps determine the concentration of a species in a solution?
In order to survive and maintain what state, an organism must quickly adapt to changing environmental conditions?
What crust is thinner and denser than continental crust?
What are the antibodies an animal produces after exposure to a microbial antigen?
How does heat travel from the sun to the earth?
What were the first life forms found on earth similar to?
Steel, bronze, and brass are examples of what?
A pacemaker uses electrical shocks to stimulate the what to beat properly?
What is the cloud of  brown dust-like power that escapes when a puffball fungus is touched?
What are the cone-like structures that contain sporangia called?
What are considered to be the smallest particles of matter?
The mechanics of dynein-based bending involve a process that resembles what?
What type of creature is a scallop?
The risk of what is raised by overexposure to the sun?
Which artery enters the cranium through the carotid canal in the temporal bone?
How are aquatic biomes often classified?
What is the most abundant type of biological entity on the earth?
What is the most diverse and abundant group of organisms on earth, numbering in the millions of trillions?
What kind of hormones are secreted by organs classified as gonads?
An oxy-acetylene torch is an effective way to cut what?
What are the infoldings of the inner membrane called?
A channel protein is an example of what type of protein?
Eight of the hottest years on record have occurred since what year?
Average acceleration is the rate of change of what?
What is studied to understand gene expression patterns in cells?
Ribosomes are produced in the nucleolus, and then transported to the what?
Ecosystem dynamics include more than the flow of energy and recycling of matter. ecosystems are also dynamic because they?
Muscle contraction requires repeated cycles of binding and what?
An important chemical compound, which supplies living things with the energy they need to survive, is composed of carbon, oxygen and atoms of what other element?
What are the glands that secrete milk in a woman's breasts?
Like a thick cap covering the brain, the dura mater is a tough outer covering. the name comes from the latin for?
Which organisms get their energy source and carbon source from organic sources?
What natural disaster is california most linked with?
Small crustaceans exchange gases across thin areas of the cuticle; larger species have what to accomplish this?
The superior vena cava and the inferior vena cava are veins that return blood lacking what to the heart?
There are only four possible bases that make up each dna nucleotide: adenine, guanine, thymine, and?
What affects the boiling point of water?
The average length of a woman’s menstrual cycle is what?
Water leaves ponds and lakes through evaporation and also as what?
What is a biochemical compound that is a chain of amino acids called?
Each what is made of two identical sister chromatids?
Amino groups are found within amino acids, nicknamed the building blocks of what?
What is the name of earth’s only natural satellite?
Which is the lightest of the widely used structural metals?
When lava flows over a large area and cools, it creates a large, flat surface of what type of rock?
Examples of what process are evident in many biological systems because cells are surrounded by semipermeable membranes?
What does cartilage lack compared to bones, making it softer and less rigid?
What three forms does frozen precipitation take?
What is a stream of moving water that flows through the ocean?
The elbow is an example of a what type of joint?
The first leaves of most ferns appear curled up into what?
Electrophiles have a strong tendency to react with what?
What layered form of carbon is used as a lubricant and in pencils?
What kind of solids have particles that are arranged in a regular repeating pattern?
During what in the small intestine do rings of smooth muscle repeatedly contract and then relax?
Acetyl-coa is formed from the breakdown of carbohydrates, lipids, and what else?
Juvenile hormone modulates the activity of what?
What causes the red color of laterite soils?
The scientific process of collecting data outside the lab (in the "wild") is known as what kind of work?
Red blood cells, white blood cells, platelets, and plasma are all components of what fluid?
Who created the idea of an evolutionary tree to represent the relationships between different species and their common ancestors?
What organs absorb water and nutrients from the soil?
What does magma that cools underground form?
Which season is moist, causing the most thunderstorms?
What are the two hormones primarily responsible for maintaining homeostasis of blood glucose levels?
What important process takes place in specialized tissue inside plant leaves?
What type of plants were the first to evolve?
In multicellular organisms, specialized cells may be organized into what, which in turn may be organized into organs?
What are accessory digestive organs critical for breaking down?
The direction of prevailing winds determines the type of what that usually moves over an area?
As blood glucose levels rise what is released from the pancreas?
Hydrocarbons are combined with oxygen in a series of enzymatic steps to product water, carbon dioxide, and energy, which is stored in the form of what?
The validity of thought experiments, of course, is determined by this?
What do you call a close relationship between two species that benefits both?
Generators convert mechanical energy to which kind?
What is common in two eukaryotic proteins?
What do you call egg-shaped galaxies, which are reddish to yellowish in color because they contain mostly old stars?
When it was found that, without the force of gravity exerting pressure on the bones, bone mass was lost in astronauts, what kind of exercise provided an antidote?
What can occur during periods of heavy rain?
What type of energy can be used to change the position or shape of an object, thus giving it potential energy?
What equals the output power divided by the input power?
Overpopulation takes place when the number of organisms in an area exceeds what?
There are six fundamentally different kinds of nuclear decay reactions, and each releases a different kind of particle or what?
What is the only metal that is a liquid at room temperature?
Heart valves prevent what kind of blood flow from happening in the heart?
What is the source of energy for photosynthesis?
Different types of interference include destructive and what else?
What is anything that causes cancer called?
In comparing two solutions of unequal solute concentration, the solution with the higher solute concentration is called what?
What broad group of animals - which includes rats, dogs and camels - have highly developed brains and often perform work for humans?
What term describes a way that small molecules or ions move across the cell membrane without input of energy by the cell?
Do most humans feed at one trophic level, or more than one?
What is it called when two waves combine to create a larger wave?
What is the study of the relationship between electricity and chemical reactions called?
What is the term for expelling air out of the body through the nose or mouth?
The lowest resonant frequency is called the what?
Body waves and surface waves are the two major types of what, which occur during earthquakes?
Inferior rotation occurs during limb adduction and involves the downward motion of what?
The speed of an electromagnetic wave is the product of its wavelength and what else?
Electrons in inner shells are called what?
The binding of complementary bases allows dna molecules to take their well-known shape, called a what?
What are the only amphibians without legs?
Plants, fungi, bacteria and archaea cells all have what feature that keeps them rigid that animal cells do not have?
What type of interspecies relationship involves one party being actively harmed?
Which nervous system consists of all the nervous tissue that lies outside the central nervous system?
What do organisms use to grow and repair themselves?
The afferent arterioles service about 1.3 million of what in each kidney?
Kyphosis, lordosis, and scoliosis are all diseases involving improper curvature of which bodily structure (which is supposed to be curved in a certain way anyway)?
What do herbivores eat?
What important aspect of the scientific method is a suggested explanation for an event, which can be tested?
What distant and extraordinarily energetic objects now seem to be early stages of galactic evolution with a supermassive black-hole-devouring material?
Which gland is an extension of the hypothalamus?
Energy often changes between potential and what other kind of energy?
As the prokaryotic cell size increases, what happens to its surface area-to-volume ratio?
Why are seeds of a pine cone easily carried by the wind and dispersed?
What do dendrites from the cell body recieve impulses from?
During what are deletions and duplications especially likely to occur?
What causes maple leaves to change their colors?
The cell body contains what central structure along with other organelles?
What is the term for the number that describes an electron's orbital orientation in space?
Where do most red algae species live?
What term is used for darwin's idea that in stable geologic and climatic conditions evolution occurred gradually?
What element is all life built around?
What are seamounts that rise above the water surface called?
Though often regarded as the supporting cast of the nervous system, glial cells in the brain actually outnumber what by a factor of ten?
Dinosaurs filled the niches that mammals fill today during which era?
The magnet field of earth is called what?
What two types of hormones regulate mammalian reproduction?
In addition to five classes of fish, what other classes make up the species of vertebrates?
What is the method of reproduction for echinoderms?
What is happening to the rate of the expansion of the universe?
What are required when the damage from trauma or infection cannot be closed with sutures or staples?
In addition to a vibrating electric field what does an electromagnetic wave consist of?
What type of bones serve as points of attachment for muscles and often protect internal organs?
The presence of what stratospheric gas layer decreases the frequency of skin cancer and other damaging effects of ultraviolet radiation?
The characteristic sound of a motorcycle buzzing by is an example of which effect?
What protects the scalp from ultraviolet light exposure and loss of body heat?
What is the name given to the use of controlled nuclear fusion as an energy source?
Some compounds containing hydrogen are members of an important class of substances known as what?
In which organ are bile acids made
What is the layer of electrons that encircle the nucleus at a distinct energy level called?
What is the most common way to classify stars?
What is a homogeneous mixture also known as?
Living organisms are made up of what type of carbon-based compounds?
What classification system was developed by a swedish botanist trying to classify all known living things?
The word science is derived from what latin word?
In a model of an atom, the level with the least energy is the one closest to what?
What is the process of making atp without oxygen called?
What is the type of mining called when materials are removed along a strip?
Chlorine is a nonmetal and gains one electron in becoming a what?
The most common mode of asexual reproduction is through the formation of asexual these?
Some species of fish carry their fertilized eggs in their mouth until they hatch; this is called what?
In a chemical reaction, what, in general, comes together in order to form a product?
What decides what may enter or leave a cell?
What trophic level are secondary consumers (which eat primary consumers) considered to be?
What type of map projection is used for small areas to avoid distortion?
What do atoms form by sharing valence electrons?
What is the process that moves particles by rolling or dragging along the bottom of the water?
Alkenes react with what to form dihalides?
A supervolcano that may have killed all but 10,000 humans resulted in what phenomenon, lasting up to a decade?
The existence of the plasma membrane was identified in the 1890s, and its chemical components were identified in 1915. the principal components identified at that time were these?
Acting like drawstrings to close off the alimentary canal, what regulates the passage of material between compartments?
What man-made substance tends to break down ozone in the stratosphere?
What in saliva protects the lining of the mouth from abrasion and lubricates food for easier swallowing?
Which latitudes get the most energy from the sun?
Extended stays in zero gravity are not healthy for human beings. thus, for the comfort of the astronauts, the station is rotated so that the astronauts feel there is what?
What parts of the planet does solar energy have difficulty reaching?
Oceans are made of a solution of what?
Although humans require it, what accounts for just one percent of all water on earth?
Arachidic, stearic, and palmitic fatty acids are examples of what type of fatty acid?
Weather maps show storms, air masses, and what?
What is a pure substance called?
What term describes the energy of an object that is moving or has the potential to move?
Evidence for the presence of what on mars makes scientists think that life might have existed there in the past?
What does photosynthesis allow plants to generate?
How many low and high tides occur per day?
What makes up most of the inside of a plant?
The first living cells may have evolved around how long ago?
What kind of relay occurs between the uterus, hypothalamus, and the posterior pituitary to assure an adequate supply of the hormone oxytocin during childbirth?
What type of plants do not typically require deep roots or woody stems?
What is the key to the demographic transition?
For the nervous system to function, neurons must be able to send and receive what?
Molecules move from an area of high concentration to an area of lower concentration until an what is met?
What type of layers do animals' tissues develop from?
Vectors along the same line can be what to one another like ordinary numbers?
As a cell grows, its volume increases more quickly than its what?
What is the term for an antibody that inappropriately marks self-components as foreign?
What type of orbit do the planets make in the solar system?
In which part of the ear are  the vibrations amplified by the malleus, incus, and stapes?
What landform occurs most often along plate boundaries?
Which type of glaciers form several unique features through erosion, including cirques, arêtes, and horns?
What are the strongest chemical bonds?
Bacteria break down the remains of digested food through a processed called what?
What is the term for the process in which water vapor changes to tiny droplets of liquid water?
Specialized features of populations of galápagos finches inspired what theory?
In the equation for pressure, how is force expressed?
The radiocarpal and midcarpal joints are responsible for all movements of the hand and what other part of the body?
Psip can be positive or negative relative to what kind of pressure?
Lava erupts through long cracks in the ground, also called what?
What is the smallest aromatic hydrocarbon?
Which type of tree loses its leaves each fall and remains leafless in the winter?
Water is a versatile solvent that can dissolve many ionic and polar molecular solutes to make what?
Cigarettes are a major source of what kind of chemical substances linked with cancer?
Does the force of magnetism increase or decrease as the distance between objects increases?
What evolutionary concept emphasizes reproductive isolation?
What do you call the transfer of thermal energy between particles of matter that are touching?
What's the term for a cyclic hydrocarbon with a carbon-carbon triple bond?
Osmosis is driven by the imbalance of what?
Chromosomes consist of what material made up of strings of dna?
Are scissors simple or compound machines?
What type of isotopes have short half-lives and are given in very low doses?
What is the multi-phase process in which the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell divides?
What are microscopic vessels with very thin, porous walls?
Which part of a fish helps them breathe?
What produces hormones referred to as thymosins, which contribute to the development of the immune response in infants?
Some of the biggest waves occur with what type of storm that forms over the ocean and brings high winds?
In many species, display behaviors, like a gorilla beating on its chest, are used instead of actual physical attacks to show what?
What are the two types of vascular tissue?
Because heterotrophs cannot make their own food, what are they called?
Nucleic acids contain the information needed for cells to make what?
Unlike corals, jellyfish spend most of their lives as what?
What are materials that eject electrons when illuminated with light called?
Hfcs are used as a replacement for what?
What has the burning of fossil fuels increased in the atmosphere?
In humans, the sperm cell is the only cell with what structure that enables motility?
Dispersal occurs only on what time scale?
What type of feedback intensifies a change in the body’s physiological condition rather than reversing it?
What law explains why some objects float and some sink.
What is the force of gravity called?
The structure of the human tail bone is called what?
Of course, a net external force is needed to cause any acceleration, just as newton proposed in his second law of what?
The oldest fossil of land plants date back how many millions of years?
What do young female meerkats act as in colonies?
Since europeans settled in the united states, about what percentage of topsoil has eroded away?
What is first year after birth is called?
What do you call a substance that cannot be separated into smaller pieces, which is also defined by the number of protons it has?
A protective coating of zinc to prevent corrosion is applied to steel and other metals labeled what?
How do bacteria reproduce?
The pituitary gland is associated with what bodily system?
Why is it necessary to maintain proper levels of cations in intercellular fluids?
Evolving from a single common ancestor, what group of organisms was perhaps the dominant life form on earth 250 million years ago?
What two forms can fluids take?
What are ionic compounds that produce hydroxide ions when dissolved in water?
When do end portions of two nonsister chromatids trade places?
Through which part of the body do most animals take in oxygen?
Magma can be created when temperature rises, pressure lowers, or what else is added?
What is the rotational equivalent of a force?
What happens when when the immune system does not work properly?
What is the beneficial function to the body of sweating?
What type of microscope is used to see extremely small objects?
What is the most prevalent gas in the atmosphere, but not the most vital for life?
Why wouldn't a teakettle have an aluminum handle?
What can help scientist gather information for an investigation?
What do we call the region on the lung root formed by the entrance of the nerves at the hilum?
Both oxygen and glucose are transported within the body via what?
An increase in the body's cholesterol levels can lead to your arteries filling with what?
After citric acid forms, it goes through a series of reactions that release what, which is then captured in special molecules?
All chemical changes involve a transfer of what?
The normal response of the respiratory system to elevated ph is to increase the amount of what in the blood?
What part of an atom is electrically neutral?
Bar, circle, and line are all types of what?
Unlike eukaryotic cells, dna and rna synthesis in prokaryotic cells occurs together with synthesis of what?
What type of bacteria are sometimes used as weapons of bioterrorism?
What is the name of a joint in which one bone rotates in relation to another bone?
Cirrus, stratus, and cumulus are types of what?
What is a buildup of electric charges on objects?
Where do you find the greatest biodiversity?
The ostwald process is the commercial method for producing what?
What includes the bones and cartilage?
What type of constraints are placed on technological design?
What cycle is the second stage of cellular respiration?
What phenomenon can cause a protein in an organism to be made incorrectly?
What are mid-wavelength electromagnetic waves commonly referred to as?
Bronchial tubes in the lungs branch into ever-smaller structures, finally ending in alveoli. the alveoli act like what?
What can be used to accelerate the rate at which chemical reactions occur?
Air temperature changes as what increases?
What happens to energy in a closed system?
What are magnetites naturally attracted to?
The visceral senses are most often below the limit of conscious perception because they are involved in this?
The ideal gas law does not require that the properties of what?
Vertebrates lacking what structures often use lungs for gas exchange?
What "kind" of water may take longer to become contaminated than surface water, while the natural cleaning process may take longer?
Long-term storage of what element occurs when matter from living organisms is buried deep underground and becomes fossilized?
Electron configurations are a shorthand method of indicating what subshells electrons occupy in these?
Light emitted by atoms is polychromatic—containing more than one of these?
What fatty material inside arteries can restrict blood flow in the artery?
What is used to record seismic waves?
What does a solar power plant turn sunlight into?
Moving electrons have a form of kinetic energy called what?
Sunlight contains many different wavelengths, which you see when they separate into what?
The study of how organisms develop is known as?
What type of force always opposes the direction of motion?
What kind of energy is released when the nucleus of an atom is split?
When did we learn there was a hole in the ozone layer?
What type of generators use electromagnetic induction to change kinetic energy to electrical energy?
In the simple cubic system, the atoms or ions are located in which part of the cell?
What are the earliest and simplest vertebrates?
Behaviors are responses to stimuli. they can either be instinctual/innate behaviors, which are not influenced by the environment, or learned behaviors, which are influenced by this?
Gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria are distinguished by thickness of what?
What is common in muscles that have become exhausted by use?
What is another term for the early larval stage of a frog?
The release of an egg from an ovary, is part of what cycle?
Which part of the body shows does horner's syndrome affect?
In which way to vertebrates reproduces?
What contains more calcium than any other organ?
One of the main features all vetebrates have in common is what?
Cytoplasmic determinants are distributed how in unfertilized eggs?
What relatively new addition to and highest level of the system of taxonomic classification includes just three divisions, the eukarya, the archaea, and the bacteria?
What is only effective if ventilation is matched to blood flow through alveolar capillaries?
What sprouts up on stalks from the bed of moss gametophytes?
Like all chordates, vertebrates are animals with four defining traits, at least during which stage?
What occurs when two waves combine and cancel each other out?
What occurs when the crests of one wave overlap the troughs, or lowest points, of another wave?
What system in both males and females consists of structures that produce reproductive cells, or gametes, and secrete sex hormone?
What type of creature is noted for having its eyes at the tips of stalks or tentacles that emerge from its head?
What were the first animals to have true lungs and limbs for life on land?
What do they call 2,2,4-trimethylpentane in the gasoline industry?
What do we call any way that animals act, either alone or with other animals.
When waves of two different frequencies interfere, what phenomenon occurs?
Further transformation occurs during organogenesis, the formation of what?
Each antibody can bind with just one specific type of what, resulting in a signal for a phagocyte to destroy them?
What kind of surface temperature is found on venus?
What type of resource is limited in supply and cannot be replaced except over millions of years?
The name of the cation comes first, followed by the name of the anion, in what kind of compound?
Electromagnetic radiation is a form of what?
What are the cells or structures that detect sensations?
What artificial process involves making an exact copy of a gene?
Deer ticks are the vectors for what disease that affects humans?
A highway that switches back and forth as it climbs up a steep hillside, yeilding a much gentler slope, is an example of what simple machine?
The loss of too much blood may lead to shock of what system?
What is the tectonic zone called where two plates come together?
The mild oxidation of thiols gives compounds called what?
What is the structure in a diploid sporophyte that undergoes meiosis to form haploid spores?
Gene expression and what else are usually considered the same molecular process?
Centipedes have what on their foremost trunk segment, used to paralyze prey and aid in defense?
What paired organs together receive about 25 percent of cardiac output and are protected in the retroperitoneal space by the renal fat pad and overlying ribs and muscle?
The diversity of life on earth today is the result of what?
In science, coefficients are used to balance what kind of equations?
What connection is required for a newborn baby to begin breathing?
How is population density expressed?
Type 1 diabetes results in the  pancreas not being able to make what ?
Photosynthesis produces oxygen as a byproduct, and respiration produces what as a byproduct?
Volcanoes are termed active, dormant, or extinct depending on the possibility of the presence of what in chamber structures?
Ciliary muscles control the shape of the lens, which bends light and focuses it on what?
Convection in which part of the earth drives the movement of the plates of lithosphere over the earth’s surface?
Simple eyes, like the human eye, have how many lenses?
What are the most advanced group of seedless vascular plants called?
What is a rigid layer that surrounds the plasma membrane of a plant cell?
A tropism where light is the stimulus is known as what?
What is transmitted that makes up the electromagnetic spectrum?
Rust is an example of the reaction of oxygen with what?
When the sun is below the horizon and thus not visible on a direct line, the light path will bend slightly and thus make the sun visible by what?
What term describes a drug that has an effect on the central nervous system?
What is the physical area where a specie lives?
Where does most geologic activity take place?
What type of winds move the same way as mountain and valley breezes?
What is the term for the length of the route between two points?
An individual with down's syndrome has 47 of what instead of the normal 46?
Where is the fruiting body normally produced in relation to the food source?
What is the largest of the sinuses?
As the temperature of water decreases what happens to the speed of the water molecules?
Amines are weak bases due to the presence of a lone pair of what on the nitrogen atom?
Muscle groups are controlled by what mechanism?
Deficiency of what mineral causes bones to become porous and weak?
What is the apparatus used for carrying out an electrolysis reaction called?
After what life stage does the fusion inside a star end?
What color is neptune?
What is it called when large objects are broken down into smaller pieces?
What is the term for species in symbiotic relationships evolving together?
Hemoglobin, with four polypeptide chains or subunits, is the most frequently cited example of a protein having what kind of structure?
What causes blood vessels to grow toward the tumour in cancer cells?
What is igneous rock created from?
What is the exchange of gases between the body and outside air?
What type of metal is a good conductor of electricity?
What is the study of ecosystems?
Where do sperm go after leaving the testicles and before entering the vas deferens?
What theory brings together continental drift and seafloor spreading?
Different forms of the same element are called what?
What is the  only marsupial in north america?
What is the generation of electricity using photovoltaic cells to split water molecules called?
What does the color of soil indicate?
What kind of charge does a neutron have?
But a point mutation can also change a codon for an amino acid into a what?
The location of an object in a frame of reference is called what?
What kind of change causes evolution in population?
What type of lipids contain the element phosphorus, carbon, hydrogen and oxygen?
Photosynthesis requires light, water and what else?
Tropical rainforest, temperate grassland, and tundra are examples of what type of biomes?
What is described by the concentration of hydrogen ions in a solution?
Which theory states that all organisms are composed of one or more cells, the cell is the basic unit of life, and new cells arise from existing cells?
Light retains its original color under water because what remains the same when light is refracted?
What are interferons?
What is the air that remains after a forced exhalation called?
What is the term for a gas that completely abides by the kinetic-molecular theory?
What is required to partially overcome the attractive forces between molecules in a solid to form a liquid?
Cephalochordates have a notochord and nerve cord but not a?
Name the physicist who discovered radioactivity?
Researchers have identified the receptor proteins for all of the tastes except which?
What has high surface tension because of extensive hydrogen bonding?
Where are sponges most likely anchored to?
What do jellyfish use to startle predators?
What do corals secrete that builds up to become a coral reef?
What layer covers the bones that make them look tough, shiny, and white?
John dalton thought that what unit, which means "indivisible", could not be divided into smaller, simpler particles?
What gems are created by mollusks, such as oysters?
Extrusive igneous rocks are also called what?
What happened to chemical reactions when temperature increases?
Where do living things obtain the energy to carry out all life processes?
What is another term for all eukaryotic organisms that are neither animals, nor plants, nor fungi?
Tissues of marine bony fishes gain what from their surroundings?
When magma reaches the surface through cracks in the earth's crust, what occurs?
The peripheral nervous system consists of all the nerves that are found outside what?
Where is gabbro found?
Mypyramid features colored bands that represent what?
Which type of diseases do antibiotics treat?
What is the loss of energy available to do work called?
What do you call the gently sloped ocean floor nearest the edges of continents?
What uses oxygen gas to break apart the carbon-hydrogen bonds in glucose and release their energy?
Which human body system system moves nutrients and other substances throughout the body?
An elastic collision is one that conserves internal energy of what type?
What term refers to an animal that sleeps during the day and is active at night?
What do you call a period when temperatures are cooler than normal, causing glaciers to spread?
Every object is attracted to every other object by what force?
What begins when an oogonium with the diploid number of chromosomes undergoes mitosis?
What is the most abundant element in the universe?
If the electromagnetic repulsion between protons is greater than the strong nuclear force of attraction between them, what do they become?
What disease, caused by vitamin c deficiency, causes bleeding gums, nosebleeds, and other symptoms?
What type of waves are the slowest of all seismic waves?
What are the two types of optical telescopes?
What can be hard or even impossible to perform in a scientific sense?
In contrast to mammals and birds, freshwater fishes produce large volumes of very dilute what?
What is the matter through which sound waves travel?
Polygenic traits result in a distribution that resembles a curve.  what is the shape of the curve?
Since eddy currents and magnetic damping occur only in conductors, recycling centers can use these to separate metals from other materials?
Most plates are made up of a combination of what?
Chromosomes further condensed in which stage?
What weak base is applied as an agricultural fertilizer in its pure form and is diluted to make a household cleanser?
During the winter, production of what amine involved in the sleep-wake cycle may be affected by less sunlight hours?
What is the term for the small particles that rocks are worn down to by water and wind?
Physical properties are characteristics that describe what as it exists?
What allows for a large and mature fetus before birth,  resulting from a long period of fetal growth in the uterus?
What type of bonds form only between metals and nonmetals?
A system is said to be in stable equilibrium if, when displaced from equilibrium, it experiences a net force or torque in a direction opposite to the direction of the what?
What cycle completes the breakdown of glucose begun in glycolysis?
What do we call the full range of electromagnetic waves?
What kind of light ranges from red to violet?
All matter in the universe is composed of one or more unique pure substances called what?
What are the smallest type of blood vessels?
Athletes such as swimmers and bicyclists wear body suits in competition to minimize what forces?
During strenuous exercise our muscles perform what kind of fermentation?
What force causes waves to topple over and break on the shore?
What type of simple machine is a seesaw an example of?
What part of a sample can be represented by the mean, median, and mode?
Arteries have thinner wall layers and valves and move blood by the action of skeletal what?
The fetal stage begins about how long after fertilization?
Which is the best way to maintain a strong, fit body?
Which system refers to the skin and its accessory structures?
Normally, only traces of protein are found in urine, and when higher amounts are found, damage to what is the likely cause?
What is the nickname of the best-known geyser in the world, which erupts reliably every 90 minutes?
The two general types of reproduction are sexual and what?
Acid rain is corrosive rain caused by rainwater falling to the ground through which gas?
What is the net force when two forces act in the same direction?
What hypothesis states that the biosphere is its own living organism
The planet neptune has strange dark spots that sometimes appear on its surface?  what are these spots?
The thalamus acts as a gateway to and from what?
When describing motion, what factor is just as important as distance?
What often relies on cooperation between the motor and autonomic nervous systems?
What nerves are connected to the spinal cord?
What source of water pollution picks up chemicals from the ground with water and carries them to bodies of water?
Where do all cells come from?
What is the term for learning from past experiences and reasoning?
Science is the process of knowing about the natural universe through observation and this?
What type of plant keeps it green leaves year-round?
What are reactions that can occur only in one direction called?
What is the diffusion of water molecules across a semipermeable membrane?
What forms when there is a difference in temperature between the land and the air?
What domain-level category of cells can contain more than 1000 times the dna found in a typical bacterial cell?
What gas is released by burning of fossil fuels and contributes to global warming?
A major disturbance in what results in an episode of severe weather called a storm?
Bone marrow, the thymus gland, the spleen, and the tonsils are organs in what body system?
What term refers to the balance, or equilibrium, within the cell or a body, and an organism’s ability to keep a constant internal environment?
Atoms of different elements can combine in simple whole number ratios to form what?
What blood component serves both structural and molecular functions in blood clotting?
What type of reproduction begins when an egg and sperm combine?
What are long chains of amino acids?
What phase exists when all the water in a container has physical properties intermediate between those of the gaseous and liquid states?
What do you call the movement of a substance from an area of a higher amount toward an area of lower amount?
Each myofibril is made up of two types of proteins, called actin and what?
If the experimental value is less than the accepted value, the error is what?
According to which process, sublevels and orbitals are filled with electrons in order of increasing energy?
The roughness of interacting surfaces and the magnitude of force pushing one object onto another are two factors related to what force?
How many types of leptons are there?
Plants, algae and bacteria are all examples of what type of organism?
What forms after air cools below its dew point?
In hornworts, the horns are the sporophytes that rise up from what?
What generally sets the direction that technology takes?
Living things that feed on others are generally known as what?
What is an isotope that is radioactive called?
What is a compound that can form ions when it dissolves in water called?
When using a generator, we are transforming what energy into what energy?
What kind of resource is soil?
What is the term for the stalk connecting a leaf to a stem?
What are the specialized cells within the brain called?
What stimulates the production of milk by the mammary glands following childbirth?
In vascular plants, the sporophyte generation is what?
What organ system transports blood through the body and to and from the lungs?
"cardio" has become slang for what type of exercise that raises your heart rate for an extended amount of time?
How many protons do all atoms of a particular element have in their nuclei?
One of the five fundamental conservation laws in the universe refers to conservation of what, which is the product of mass and velocity?
Copper oxide is a result of what two substances mixing?
The process of getting oxygen into the body and releasing carbon dioxide is called?
Someone who believes something despite the evidence is referred to by what term that references a false belief about our planet?
Which cells continue the digestion and absorption of nutrients and transport these nutrients to the lymphatic and circulatory systems?
Pressure is defined as the force per unit area on?
What do body cells use for energy?
What force pulls people and objects toward the center of the earth?
The rate of decay of carbon-14 does what over time?
What behavior includes all the ways that animals interact with each other and the environment?
Food chains carry energy from what group to what group?
What are professionals in technology are generally called ?
What force occurs whenever two surfaces come into contact?
The anatomy of primate eyes shows they tend to rely more on vision than what sense, which is dominant in many other mammals?
What are sensory cells?
What is it called when waves interact with other waves?
What is the ph level for pure water?
What is vital for nervous system functions that include muscle stimulation, memory formation, and learning?
The benthic zone is found at the bottom of all of what type of biomes?
The hydroxyl radical is highly reactive because it has what?
Gametes swim with the aid of what structure to the female gametangium, and fertilization ensues?
A phospholipid is a bond between the glycerol component of a lipid and what else?
What connects the fetus to the placenta?
In desert cactus, thorns that protect the water held in a large, barrel-shaped stem are an example of what?
What are the most common dietary lipids?
What process is the opposite of fusion and releases energy only when heavy nuclei are split?
Visible light is the narrow segment of what, to which the normal human eye responds?
Bromine is much less abundant than fluorine or chlorine, but it is easily recovered from seawater, which contains about 65 mg of br− per what?
Karyotyping shows whether what structures, which contain genetic information, are normal in number and appearance?
Real gases deviate from ideal form at high pressure and what other thermodynamic condition?
Organic substances, including proteins, carbohydrates, and oils, contain what element?
What term describes anything that occupies space and has mass, and is generally divided into three states?
When light strikes the rods and cones, they hyperpolarize, shutting off their release of what?
The heart contracts rhythmically to pump what to the lungs and the rest of the body?
What do light emitters do to what you see?
A turbine using tides in the ocean can create what type of energy?
The atomic number is the same as the number of what in an atom?
What is the closed circulatory system of humans and other vertebrates called?
"red-shift" refers to a shift toward red in the spectrum from what celestial bodies?
What is the name for substances with a ph above 7?
The subducting oceanic plate does what as it reenters the mantle?
Which stage of development is a period during which apoptosis is widespread and plays a crucial role?
What orifice in the body is particularly helpful in both digestion and respiration?
What subphylum, which includes crabs and crayfish, represents the dominant aquatic arthropods?
What do neurons pass to the next neuron?
What determines which type of precipitation falls in the atmosphere?
The main functions of what complex carbohydrates are to store energy and form structural tissues?
High consumption of saturated fats is linked to an increased risk of what disease?
What does hair get its color from?
What type of animal in the sea spend most of their lives as medusae?
Desert plants have evolved processes to conserve water and deal with harsh conditions. a more efficient use of co2 allows plants to adapt to living with what?
Plants, cyanobacteria, and algae are living things that undergo what process and produce glucose?
All chemical changes involve a transfer of what?
What is the unique larval form of mollusks called?
A voltage source and a conductor are common to all what?
Root systems are mainly of two types. dicots have a tap root system, while monocots have a what?
Enzymes in cellular reactions work to do what to the reaction?
Bony fish can live in either of what type of aquatic biome?
What is categorized by the forces holding the individual atoms, ions, or molecules together?
What are the two main types of air pollutants?
The job of the nucleolus is to build what?
For many decades, scientists have known that atoms consist of electrons and other particles called protons and?
Patients with familial hypercholesterolemia have life-threatening levels of cholesterol because their cells cannot clear what particles from their blood?
What action, performed multiple times daily, is the single biggest use of water in the home?
What is a form of mechanical energy that starts with a vibration in matter?
What's caused by damaged capillaries in the kidneys so the nephrons can no longer filter blood?
What do roots bring in from the soil into the plant?
In addition to spiral cleavage, protostomes also undergo which other form of cleavage?
What term is used to describe animals with three germ layers?
Due to similar function, the wings of bats and birds are referred to as what type of structures?
If the amount of force of that is applied is increased, what happens to the work that a machine is producing?
What is the name for speed with a direction?
How many types of mechanical waves are there?
What is required for a decay chain to end?
What do you call the process that results in an animal producing offspring?
What do voltmeters measure?
Distinct from a suspension, a solution is considered what type of mixture?
What is the largest and most complex algae
Scientists around the world study speciation, documenting observations both of living organisms and those found in the fossil record. as their ideas take shape and as research reveals new details about how life evolves, they develop models to help explain what?
How long do the long-lived isotopes require to decay to a safe level in a nuclear reactor?
The production of light by living things is called what?
Animals that live in groups with other members of their species are called what?
Teeth in the back of the mouth are used for what?
Compared to red light, blue light has a shorter what?
The most common substance on earth, water, is primarily present in what state?
What kind of respiration allows rapid production of atp in low oxygen situations?
What two forces tend to keep an animal stationary and thus oppose locomotion?
What are membrane-bound organelles with their own dna called?
What kind of atomic molecule is oxygen gas?
Why can't fungi make their own food like plants do?
The vestibulocochlear nerve is responsible for the senses of hearing and what else?
What is an alloy of copper and tin?
What spreads sti during sexual contact?
How many amino acids are arranged like "beads on a string" to form proteins?
What do refrigerator magnets contain that make them stick to a refrigerator door?
When does most amphibians' parenting end?
What helps an insectivorous plant attract and digest insects?
E. coli uses how many enzymes to take up and metabolize lactose?
What forms as a result of decomposition when n2o  is heated?
Biomass can also be processed to make what kind of fuel?
What is produced when an egg is fertilized by a sperm in a fallopian tube?
What structures receive blood from the atria and pump it out of the heart?
What are modified leaves that bear sporangia?
The reverse process of moving material into a cell is the process of what?
Constriction and dilation allow the circulatory system to change the amount of blood flowing to which body parts?
Focused on evolution, the studies of what man have reshaped and influenced all aspects of biology?
Are cnidarians typically found in ocean or fresh water habitats?
Increasing the pressure on a gas has what effect on its solubility?
What type of fertilization do most reptiles have?
The vertebrate endoskeleton is made of bone and what tough, flexible tissue?
What has hot days and cool nights, and are typically covered with sand dunes or sparse but hardy plants?
In addition to insects, what large invertebrate phylum includes animals such as spiders, centipedes, and lobsters?
Monatomic cations have the same name as their parent element. what happens to monatomic anions?
What part of the body do hookworms infest?
Parasitic leeches feed off of what?
The mars rover collected round clumps of crystals that, on earth, usually form in what?
Attraction of a material by a magnet is an example of what type of property?
What phenomenon is essential in order for evolution to occur because it increases genetic variation and the potential for individuals to differ?
The two types of glaciers are continental and what other kind?
In dioecious animals, females generally produce what contribution to reproduction?
The cells of all protists have a what?
What type of organism causes many common diseases such as strep throat and food-borne illnesses?
What type of current do generators in cars use?
What is the movement of plates called?
Name a carbonyl in which the carbon atom is bonded to one carbon atom and one hydrogen atom (or two hydrogen atoms).
The color of an object is determined by the what of it's reflected light?
The process in which dna is copied is called what?
What type of seismic waves do the most damage?
Which continent is the only one that reptiles don't inhabit?
What is responsible for the foul smell of rancid butt?
The carbon cycle can be thought of in terms of two interdependent cycles - cellular respiration and what else?
What is the term for the green pigment in leaves that captures energy from the sun?
Evolutionary adaptation is evidenced by different shapes of what structures in birds with different food preferences?
Amino acids contain both a carboxylic acid group and what other group?
What is an alloy of both tin and copper?
What is the option to remove kidney stones other than surgery?
What does a theory need to be supported by?
What happens when antibodies are transferred to a person who has never been exposed to the pathogen?
What is the name for electrons closer to the nucleus that do not participate in bonding?
Which acid releases nitrates into soil?
What instrument made it possible to study pressure quantitatively?
What asymmetrical organ has four chambers and, in humans, is about the size of a clenched fist?
Geiger counters can be used to detect what, in general?
What term is used to describe the energy of matter in motion?
What do you call the illness that occurs when harmful bacteria enter the digestive system in food?
Herbivores and omnivores have longer alimentary canals compared to what?
What do tadpoles turn into?
The heat capacity of an object depends on its chemical composition and what other property?
Human skin color is primarily due to the presence of what pigment in the skin?
What is pollution that enters water at just one point called?
The various sensory organs are part of what organ system?
Down syndrome is caused by having three copies of what, a condition known as trisomy?
What kind of weathering changes the size of a mineral or rock but does not change its chemical composition?
What do waves do when they are unable to pass through an object?
What is used to date older fossils?
What external feature in human beings is responsible for balance?
What branch of science is the study of human origins?
Skeletal muscle cells and cardiac muscle cells share what property, which is not shared by smooth muscle cells?
Latitude affects the amount of what received by an area, which in turn affects the temperature of a region?
What do you call an abnormal mass formed when cells divide uncontrollably?
What layer is below the lithosphere and in the upper mantle?
What are lipopolysaccharide components of the outer membrane of gram-negative bacteria?
In aquatic communities, the main producers are photosynthetic protists and what?
How does the liquid in a thermometer respond to heat or cold?
In most fish, where does the embryo develop in relation to the mother's body?
What is the name of the life stage when a child becomes sexually mature?
Cytokinesis divides what part of the cell into two distinctive cells?
What is it called when a liquid displays more attraction between the liquid particles than attraction between the liquid and the glass?
In what type of mining must tunnels be blasted into the rock so that miners and equipment can get to the ore?
What kind of energy is released when the thermochemical reaction of a campfire converts wood to carbon dioxide and water?
Like the mitochondria, chloroplasts have their own dna and ribosomes, but chloroplasts have an entirely different function. chloroplasts are plant cell organelles that carry out what?
While normal light microscopes can magnify objects up to about 1,500 times, what advanced instruments can magnify objects up to 1,000,000 times?
What kind of energy does pyruvate have a lot of?
What type of landscape has grasslands with scattered trees, are hot and have extensive dry seasons along with fire?
What may be lost when waves travel through matter, but not when they travel through space?
Where does mechanical digestion begin?
How does the sun generate energy?
What stored form of energy is made up of glycerol and three fatty acid chains?
What do jellyfish give off to startle possible predators?
What is an example of a metaloid element?
Scientists use a quantity called __________ as a measure of disorder, or randomness.
Niche refers to the role a species plays in what?
An irreversible increase in size is known as?
Bacterial contamination of foods can lead to digestive problems, an illness known as what?
All combustion reactions are what type of reactions?
What produces microspores that develop into pollen grains containing male gametophytes?
When a star's core collapses inward while the outer layers spread and cool, what "colorful" celestial body forms?
Timber, obtained from trees that can be replanted to replace those that are cut down, is an example of what type of resource?
What type of blood does the right side of the heart collect and then pump to the lungs?
What elements have the highest attraction for electrons?
What is the layman's term for mammals raising their hair with tiny muscles in the skin, something that is automatic in humans sensing cold?
What are ring-shaped hydrocarbons called?
What increases in processes in which solid or liquid reactants form gaseous products and when solid reactants form liquid products?
How many pairs of legs do arachnids have?
Besides the uppermost mantle, what else is the lithosphere composed of?
What is another term for dry ice?
Name the process that produces many copies of a certain gene.
Rupture or blockage of arteries in the head is the usual cause of what condition?
What type of lines run next to each other?
What type of light sensing organs do scaophopoda have?
What kind of cleavage do mammalian eggs exhibit?
What is the name of the process for delivering water to crops?
What is the process in which a liquid boils and changes to a gas?
What are the two most common common ways that brain and spinal cord injuries occur?
What is the largest planet in the solar system?
What are elements required in very small amounts?
What can be calculated by multiplying an object’s mass in kilograms (kg) by its velocity in meters per second (m/s)?
What will happen to a rock when it's under tremendous stress?
Very large stars eventually become what extremely dense space regions, which are so dense that no light can escape from them?
Which theory suggests plant species richness increases with island size?
What state of hydrogen can be predicted based on the atoms to which it is bonded?
What occurs when there is little to no rain in a period of time?
At any specific time, the rate at which a reaction is proceeding is known as its what?
The skin is a familiar organ made of what kind of tissue?
Evolution that occurs over a short period of time is known as what?
What do osteoblasts secrete that mineralizes to become bone matrix?
Atoms that have gained electrons and become negatively charged are called what?
Snakes are which type of animal?
Cancer occurs most often in adults over what age?
Mammals are either herbivores, carnivores or what?
What paired human organs play a vital role in maintaining homeostasis?
What is the process in which glucose is made using energy in light called?
What zone is outside the radiative zone?
What do you call the temperature at which a liquid boils and starts changing to a gas?
The distinctive appearance of what tissue is due to polysaccharides called chondroitin sulfates?
In the humid subtropical climate, summers are ____ but winters are very cold.
What are found primarily in lines around the edges of some continents?
What is another name for trisomy 21?
Which part of the brain regulates the rate of breathing?
Light with the longest wavelengths is called what?
Which gas do people exhale during each breath?
Nonvascular plants such as liverworts, hornworts, and mosses lack what three typical plant features?
Much of the iron produced is refined and converted into what?
What can be formed by converging light rays behind a lens, onto a piece of film?
What is the star-like structure inside the paramecia?
What is the study of the chemical elements necessary for plant growth called?
Both alpha and beta decay change the number of what in an atom's nucleus?
What types of living things are divided into nonvascular and vascular groupings?
What can exposure to chemical or biological agents cause later in life?
What direction are sediments deposited?
When the air temperature reaches the dew point, water vapor starts to do what?
What do you call the metal elements listed below the periodic table?
Each silicon atom shares how many valence electrons with other silicon atoms in a crystal?
What is produced by the reaction of metal oxide with water?
Which type of weathering causes changes int he rocks materials, chemical or mechanical?
What type of rocks form from sediments that are cemented and compacted?
What is the common term for solid carbon dioxide, which is used as a coolant?
What is the most common type of joint in the human body?
What kind of relationship exists between living things that depend on the same resources?
Latitude plays an important role in determining what in a region?
A very small artery that leads to a capillary is known as what?
What kind of systems use fluid to transmit pressure and increase force?
What organ interprets what our sensory organs sense?
Gametes are products through meiosis in which organs?
Haumea, which is the third brightest kuiper belt object has an odd oval shape which is probably caused by what?
A changing magnetic field produces an electric current in what?
What do plants do to prevent water loss at night?
What term describes a colloidal dispersion of a liquid in either a liquid or a solid?
What evidence is there that mt. everest was once at the bottom of a sea?
Because atoms have equal numbers of positive protons and negative electrons, what kind of electric charge do they possess?
What is the term for  interactions between individuals of different species over an extended period of time which impact the abundance and distribution of the associating populations?
Plane mirrors work because the light rays create what behind the mirror?
What do we call natural resources that are remade by natural processes as quickly as people use them?
What is the process of breaking down food into components the body can absorb called?
What controls what moves inside and outside the cell?
Yeasts are single-celled fungi. about 1,000 species are recognized, but the most common species is saccharomyces cerevisiae, which is used in this?
Another measure of the effectiveness of a machine is its what?
What are biofilms resistant to many common forms of?
Fractures and faults are terms you hear when talking about?
What are resources that can not be remade, or would take too long to remake to keep up wiht human use called?
Alkenes with the same atoms but different shapes are called what?
Which of the animals digest cellulose with the aid of methanogens?
What is the major source of warmth for earth?
Like a runner passing a baton, the transmission of nerve impulses between neurons depends on what?
Which organ is the control center of the nervous system?
Continental climates are generally found in what areas of landmasses?
What mainly gives the body energy?
A mineral can be made of an element or a?
Herbivores are heterotrophs that eat only or mainly what?
The heart is an organ in which system?
What are the subatomic particles of the nucleus called?
Who wrote the book, on the origin of species?
Tar sands are rocky materials mixed with what?
A current in a circuit needs a complete what?
How do glucose, ions, and other larger molecules leave the blood?
The basal forebrain contains what that are important in learning and memory?
What thin layer of air acts as a barrier to prevent cool air from mixing with warm air in the stratosphere?
What is the name for the male gamete?
The strength of acids is measured on what scale?
What term is also known as the contact activation pathway?
What comprises the contents of a cell between the plasma membrane and the nuclear envelope?
What is used to convert concentrations to collisions per second?
The ovules, which are the female gametophytes, are held in what organ?
Snippet 2: one of the reasons the periodic table is so useful is because its structure allows us to qualitatively determine how some properties of the elements vary versus their position on the periodic table. the variation of properties versus position on the periodic table is called what?
Equilibriums are affected by changes in concentration, total pressure or volume, and this?
What type of seed-bearing structure of a flowering plant usually develop into?
What are ionic substances completely held together by?
What word do get from the arabic al-qili, meaning “ashes of the saltwort plant from salt marshes”?
Metals are elements that can conduct what?
The earth is like organisms in that it maintains a stable state, which is also known as what?
The purpose of any cooling system is to transfer what type of energy in order to keep things cool?
What is the heart's main task?
Which antibacterial protein is found in tears and saliva?
What elements tend to conduct well?
What type of masses are structureless particles that cannot spin?
What do scientists use to search other planets suitable for living?
All species of crocodilians have similar body structures, including an elongated snout, powerful jaws, muscular tail, large protective scales, streamlined body, and eyes and nostrils that are positioned on what?
During adulthood, what is needed for the production of sperm?
What are solid lipids that animals use to store energy called?
What in science are very important so that we can compare experimental data from one lab to another and make sure we all are talking about the same thing?
What substances in a car battery can be melted and recycled?
Unlike a crystalline solid, an amorphous solid is a solid that lacks a what?
Many carbohydrates can enter glycolysis, most often after conversion to what?
If a quantity of a reactant remains unconsumed after complete reaction has occurred, it is?
Name the one metal that melts below room temperature?
The way a mineral cleaves or fractures depends on what part of the mineral?
Ultimately, most life forms get their energy from this?
What was diorite commonly used for in ancient civilizations?
Aquatic biomes in the ocean are called what?
When an ionic compound dissociates in water, water molecules surround each ion and separate it from the rest of the what?
What device is used to measure temperature?
What has the smallest, lightest atoms of all the elements and is colorless, odorless, tasteless and nontoxic, but highly flammable in its pure state?
If two populations do not mate and produce fertile offspring, what results?
What system includes the brain and the spinal cord?
Light is produced when charged particles do what, frequently in the form of oscillating?
Respiration rate correlates with what?
What is the only commercial way of reproducing plants such as orchids?
Birds adapted wings and weathers for flight during what process?
Which factor ruins renewable resources like soil and water?
How does the solubility of gases in liquids change with increasing temperature?
What are all living things made of?
Where does the nucleus store chromatin ?
What do the liver, gallbladder, and pancreas contribute that aid in digestion?
What are all tissues external to the vascular cambium called?
Spirals, spheres, and rods are examples of what distinguishing property of bacteria?
The goal of homeostasis is the maintenance of what, around a point or value called a set point?
What type of energy of a system is the sum of the kinetic and potential energies of its atoms and molecules?
Primary batteries are single-use batteries because they cannot be what?
Layers of fat are formed by what type of tissue?
Basidiomycetes do what to wood and other plant material?
Pathogens infect many animals and are agents of what?
Sediments in oligotrophic lakes contain large amounts of what?
What tides occur during the new moon and full moon?
In passive transport, small molecules or ions move across the cell membrane without requiring input of what?
Some bacteria also have tail-like structures called what?
People with which skin type run a greater risk of vitamin d deficiency?
What happens to temperature in the troposphere as the altitude increases?
The kidneys help control acid-base balance by excreting _____ and generating bicarbonate that helps maintain blood plasma ph within a normal range?
What does the geiger counter detect?
Mollusks such as squid and octopi, which must hunt to survive, possess what complex organs containing millions of neurons?
Which direction from the source do pollutants in an aquifer spread?
What type of activity in the brain causes epilepsy?
What does a healthy immune system fight off?
Groundwater dissolves minerals and rocks into what?
What is the term for a certain form of matter that has the same physical properties throughout?
Bacteria are responsible for many types of what in humans?
Humans and other animals can suffer from diets lacking in what essential "ingredients"?
The size and symmetry of a beetle’s or an elk’s antlers or a grasshopper’s song communicate rather clearly their state of what?
How is blood supplied from the mother to the fetus?
How long does membrane depoloriazation typically last for?
What are the three types of mixtures?
Double strands of what wrap around histone proteins to form nucleosomes, which are coiled into a chromatin fiber?
What is the process when animals maintain an internal temperature?
Both androgen secretion and spermatogenesis occur continuously starting with what?
Where does the process of digestion start?
As distance from the source increases, the area covered by the sound waves increases, lessening what?
Mountain ranges, plateaus, and plains are features of what large landforms?
How many pathogens can each droplet contain?
The ability to change color, separately mobile and stereoscopic eyes, and rapidly extrudable tongues are distinguishing features of what lizards?
What is the other name of newton’s first law?
The velocity at the beginning of the time interval is called what?
In which sphere of the atmosphere do the northern and southern lights occur?
What carbohydrate from fruit juices is a gel-forming substance important in jelly making?
Warm water from the equator mixes with cold water from where?
A single amino acid substitution in hemoglobin leads to what disease?
Why does the heating element of a toaster get hot so quickly?
What is the industrial chemical produced in greatest quantity worldwide?
What term is used to describe a protein that acts as a biological catalyst?
What is the transfer of energy by waves called?
What are the the individual protein subunits making up the capsid called?
The eukaryotic cell cycle is regulated by a what?
How many identical daughter cells are created at the end of cytokinesis?
Which disease does the bacteria salmonella cause in humans?
What term describes the application of knowledge to real-world problems and is practiced by engineers?
What surrounds the lungs in a thoracic cavity?
When lactose is absent, a repressor protein binds to what?
The four moons of jupiter are collectively named after what 17th century astronomer, who discovered them?
What is the term for the distance between two corresponding points on adjacent waves?
Which instruments are used to measure the angle of the slope of a volcano?
What is the term for matter that does not let any light pass through?
Gain or loss of what causes an atom to become a negatively or positively charged ion?
The electrochemical potential across a membrane determines the tendency of an ion to do what?
Nucleic acids are polymers made of monomers called what?
Antibodies also mark pathogens for destruction by which cells?
What are small organelles and are the site of protein synthesis called.
What term is defined as the ability to locate objects in the dark by bouncing sound waves off them.
Ringworm and athlete’s foot are common human diseases caused by types of what?
Vertical layering is an important feature of the terrestrial type of what kind of community?
What do many cells depend on glucose for?
When continental crust is pulled apart, it breaks into blocks that are separated by what?
What body part boasts three articulations and includes the patella?
The physical properties of gases are predictable using mathematical formulas known as what?
What is the disease where some alveoli of the lungs fill with fluid?
The primary function of leaves is to collect sunlight and make food by what process?
In which type of reaction are compounds formed?
For feeding, the head contains one pair of mandibles and two pairs of what?
What term given to animals like reptiles is a synonym for ectothermic, which means that their heat comes from their environment?
What forms in the ocean from the seafloor spreading?
What does ozone in the stratosphere protect us from?
What is the basic unit of matter?
What is the name of the protein that is found in hairs and nails?
When fuel is burned most of the energy is released as what?
A change in one or more physical properties of matter without any change in chemical properties is called what?
Particles with what type of electric charges attract each other?
Avoiding carcinogens helps lower the risk of what?
What is the mechanism that accounts for the drifting of continents?
In a dehydration reaction, what is removed as two monomers are joined together?
What is the smallest unit of structure and function of all living organisms?
The dual character is critical for the formation of the what?
In humans, a zygote has how many chromosomes?
The elements are arranged in rows, each representing the filling of what shell?
The water cycle is powered by energy from where?
When lactose is present in the cell, what allows the lac genes to be expressed?
What class of animals, translated as “head foot”, includes octopuses, squids, cuttlefish, and nautilus?
What can be calculated by solving the average speed formula?
Transverse divisions are associated with leaf elongation, and longitudinal divisions are associated with what?
Of the four nerve plexuses, two are found at the cervical level, one at the lumbar level, and one at which level ?
When does sublimation occur?
What organism is responsible for most decomposition in forest?
Cancer of the testes is most common in males between what ages?
Prions are slow-acting, virtually indestructible infectious proteins that cause diseases of what vital organ in mammals?
What does the male reproductive system consist of?
What causes genetic disorders in humans?
What can lead to a loss of genetic variation within populations?
Four electron groups orient themselves into what shape that has four faces?
The primary hormones derived from lipids are what?
What are most metal objects made of?
What law explains how the change in direction of the light ray depends on how the speed of light changes, which in turn is related to the indices of refraction of the media involved?
What limits the growth or development of an organism, population, or process?
The primary application of biotechnology is in what field?
In naming ternary compounds, which type of particle is stated first?
The pollen grain absorbs water and does what after it adheres to the stigma of a carpel?
What term refers to change in position over time?
Ice ages, continental drift, and giant meteorites striking earth have caused what phenomenon?
What can all living things sense and respond to in their environment?
What do we call use of electric current to encode information?
How many additional pairs of appendages do arachnids have?
Melting points are temperatures that are high enough to separate liquids from which substances?
Strong, stable bonds between carbon atoms produce complex molecules containing chains, branches, and rings; the chemistry of these compounds is called what?
What are the blood vessels that carry blood toward the heart and tend to have thinner walls?
What is a measure of the amount of space a substance or an object takes up?
Potassium, calcium, and magnesium are considered what kind of nutrients?
What normally prevent a positively charged particle from colliding and reacting with a positively charged nucleus, but may be overcome by kinetic energy?.
Sometimes two or more distinct phenotypes can each have their advantages and be selected for by natural selection; this is known as what?
Management programs based on population-regulating factors have helped prevent the extinction of many?
What basic plant structure is the site of photosynthesis?
What provides the identities of the reactants and products involved in the chemical change?
What process creates sperm?
Both fluorine and lithium are highly reactive elements because of their number of what?
Earth acts like a giant version of what device, with angular momentum along its axis and pointing at polaris, the north star?
Ovulation takes place in what organ and is part of the menstrual cycle?
Instead of a nervous system, plant responses are generally controlled by what type of molecules, which serves as chemical messengers?
Asexual reproduction occurs by what process?
What do all respiratory diseases affect?
What is one trait that the sponge and tarantula share?
What bonds form when pairs of electrons are shared?
Hydrocarbons in which all carbons are connected by single bonds are called?
What occurs when two wave crests overlap?
The length of a rectangular surface multiplied by its width is equal to what?
What is the testing for disease in a fetus or embryo?
The two adrenal glands are glands located just above the what?
What is the term for the number of waves that pass a fixed point in a given amount of time?
The migration of what familiar coastal landform involves saltation and gravity?
The procedure known as angioplasty is used when what part of the circulatory system is clogged?
What type of maps detail detail the types and locations of rocks found in an area?
What is another term for the voice box?
The proximity of the axillary buds to the apical bud is partly responsible for their what?
How do the vast majority of fish reproduce?
What is the quantity of force multiplied by the time it is applied called?
Diphenylamine acts as a stabilizer for certain types of what?
Behind the pupil, a single lens focuses light on a layer of what?
Why is the root cap continuously replaced in plants?
Aquatic biomes are determined mainly by distance from shore and what other factor?
Who is said to have dropped two objects of different masses from the tower of pisa?
What determines the length and thickness of dna chromosomes?
What type of gas is used to fill glass tubes of lighted signs?
What does fog consist of?
Spiders use the hydrostatic pressure generated by an open type of what anatomical system to extend their legs?
The normal respiratory rate per minute in adult humans is?
Where is glycogen created and stored in the body?
When we neutralize a weak base with a strong acid, the product is ________ containing the conjugate acid of the weak base.
What is the main component of milk?
Stomata are the main avenues of transpiration, the evaporative loss of water from what?
What is a form of matter that has a definite shape and volume?
What type of energy is stored in the nuclei of atoms?
Providing evidence of their ancestry, some species of what legless animals retain vestigial pelvic and limb bones?
What happens when more glucose is present than the proteins can handle, in the body?
What are most protist diseases in humans caused by?
Transporting blood is the main job of the heart and what?
What occurs when the amount of solute dissolved exceeds the solubility of the solute?
What are cyclins made up of?
What do ferns use in place of seeds to reproduce?
Water affects the availability of what important element in aquatic environments and in flooded soils?
Fuels according to the law of what, can never actually be “consumed”; it can only be changed from one form to another?
The ability of matter to burn is called?
Uncontrolled cell growth can lead to tumors and what disease?
Video and audio signals are broadcast on these?
In a tropical rainforest, where are ferns common?
Which metalloids are found in the nitrogen group?
What kind of family is haumea part of?
The db gene encodes the which receptor?
How many main types of diabetes are there?
What organ is similar to a lymph node but is much larger and filters blood instead of lymph?
What is the process of converting atmospheric nitrogen to ammonia called?
Phospholipids and some proteins move laterally within what?
What changes encoded waves which are being broadcast into sounds?
When the oval window vibrates, it causes what else to vibrate as well?
When changes in the genes of a species result in a new species, the process is called what?
What happens if a person doesn’t take in enough water to replace the water lost in sweat?
How does the atomic number change during beta emission?
What is the most widely distributed organism around?
On a topographic map, what is the term for a line of equal elevation?
Where does the stratosphere get most of its heat?
What source of ocean pollution kills animals by coating them?
What is the name of pluto's moon?
What type of bond generally forms between a metal and non-metal?
What's the name for an atom that has gained or lost an electron?
Light is scattered from what in our atmosphere?
What refers to the union of a male and female of the same species for reproduction?
Tree sap enclosing an organism in amber or an organism preserved in tar or ice are actually examples of what?
Which theory states that the characteristics of living things are controlled by genes?
What does the secondary oocyte have the most of from the original cell?
Kangaroos, koala and opossums are part of what group?
What term refers to a group of individuals of the same species that live in the same area and is the unit of natural selection, adaptation, and microevolution?
What larger theory is einstein's equation part of?
Low yields of nitric oxide, no, form when heating nitrogen and oxygen together. no also forms when lightning passes through air during this?
Scientists that study dolphins and other life in the ocean are called what?
What is the scientific term for the act of eating or feeding?
The collision of what is responsible for massive earthquakes?
Proteins are one of four classes of what type of compounds?
What is the term for a fold that arches upward?
Under certain conditions, electric current causes what type of field?
What is the most complex organ in the human body?
What is a soft connective tissue inside pores and cavities in spongy bone?
What is another term for chemical messenger molecules?
The alimentary canal is associated with what organ system?
Which organisms capture light energy and convert it to chemical energy inside their cell?
Specific scents are often associated with what?
Microwave ovens use radiation to provide food with what kind of energy?
What are usually planted in rows with bare soil in between the rows?
Name the type of system that a jellyfish does not have?
Because plants are relatively immobile, they can function with bulky energy storage in the form of what?
How do invertebrates reproduce?
The process of transferring pollen from the male reproductive part of a flower known as the anthers to the female reproductive part of the flower known as the stigma is referred to as what?
What do you call catalysts that are found inside of living things?
Energy from sunlight is absorbed by what pigment in the thylakoid membrane of chloroplasts?
Surface tension forces between moleculse cause the surface of liquid to contract to what?
What term refers to the breaking stress that will cause permanent deformation or fracture of a material?
In great apes, what process lasts 8-9 months and usually results in the birth of a single offspring?
Plants can reproduce sexually and in which other way?
Earth is the only planet in the solar system that has what element, which is essential for human life, present in all three of its states?
Although individuals of a given species are genetically similar, they are not identical; every individual has a unique set of these?
The following definition relates to which term: the application of knowledge to real-world problems?
Pauropods, presumed relatives of millipedes usually found in soil, leaf litter and other moist places, live on all continents except what?
The frequency of a wave is the reciprocal of what other attribute of the wave?
People with type o blood are often called what?
Chemical changes occur because of what?
Low-level exposure of humans to radiation can cause what?
What are the nonliving parts of ecosystems like soil and air called?
A mixture of a metal with one or more other elements is called?
What is a small protein that helps fight infections?
What type of scientists study the effects people have on their environment?
What do you call the diffusion of solutes through transport proteins in the plasma membrane?
Like bacteria, archaea can have what to assist with movement?
What kind of mutations are produced by nucleotide-pair insertions or deletions?
A form of carbon in which carbon atoms are arranged in a hollow sphere is known as?
The two complementary strands of what are separated, much like unzipping a zipper, in the initiation phase?
Things that are hydrophobic repel or otherwise don't really mix with what?
Arteries and veins are two of the three types of blood vessels, what is the third?
What basic structure holds plants upright, bears leaves and other structures, and transports fluids between roots and leaves?
What kind of parasites are nearly all ticks that live on the body surfaces of reptiles or mammals?
What results when birth rates fall even lower than death rates?
How do hydrogen bonds help ions and other polar molecules?
What two things determine how much kinetic energy an object has?
What are the pores in plants that keep certain gases and liquids in and out called?
What is the disease in which bronchioles in the lungs periodically swell and fill with mucus?
E. histolytica causes what kind of dysentery?
What is a copy of an image formed by reflection or refraction?
What term refers to the union of a male and female of the same species for reproduction?
What bodily function do the triceps help perform?
What properties describe the existence of matter, as opposed to chemical properties that describe how substances change into other substances?
Which phylum are all vertebrate organisms a member of?
What property of matter is defined as the ability to do work and is required by all living organisms in order to grow and reproduce?
What do nearly all nonsense mutations lead to ?
What cannot be created or destroyed in a chemical reaction?
When the energy of the earthquake reaches shore, it forms a huge wave called?
Which muscle is broad, triangular and located on the inferior part of the back where it inserts into the aponeurosis?
What do organisms need to speed up biochemical reactions?
The properties of cyclic hydrocarbons are generally quite similar to those of the corresponding open-chain compounds. so cycloalkanes (with the exception of cyclopropane, which has a highly strained ring) act very much like noncyclic alkanes. cyclic structures containing five or six carbon atoms, such as cyclopentane and cyclohexane, are particularly what?
What collect data on the land and sea in regards to the weather?
What is a form of matter that has a definite volume, but an indefinite shape?
What is stored and concentrated in the gallbladder?
What is the first step towards wound repair?
Noble gases are monatomic because they only contain one of what?
Genetic variation helps ensure that some organisms will survive if what happens?
Earth’s magnetic north and south poles are not the same as what?
Push or pull acting on an object is also called?
What colors in a neon sign represent real neon?
What kind of waves consist of vibrating electric and magnetic fields?
When do weather balloons return to earth?
What is the addition of oxygen to a molecule or the removal of hydrogen from a molecule called?
Hair and nails are made of what?
What radiation, generally produced by thermal motion and the vibration and rotation of atoms and molecules, literally means "below red"?
Lactose intolerance is a condition characterized by indigestion caused by this?
What is the name of the liquid component of a solution?
What type of tissue consists of cells that cover inner and outer body surfaces?
Where is the site of photosynthesis?
What can be identified as an element, a compound, or a mixture?
Vaccination is the process of exposing a person to pathogens on purpose so the person will develop what?
What is the layer above the troposphere?
The calvin cycle and light reactions are the two stages of what process?
Untreated chlamydia can lead to pelvic inflammatory disease, which affects what organ system?
What feature of the land do contour lines show?
By what process does the haploid gametophyte produce the gametes?
Where do carrier proteins carry ions or molecules?
Among vertebrates, what broad category of animals is most capable of learning?
What is the first step of the calvin cycle called?
What harmful substance must not be drained into s storm sewer?
What is the special name given to the diffusion of water through the cell membrane?
What happens to the electrical conductivity of metals when placed in a pot of boiling water?
Most bird species display this behavior, meaning the male and female remain together for breeding for a few years or until one mate dies?
Many pathogens spread by droplets in the air. droplets are released when a person does what?
Chemical reactions that consume energy are called what?
What do most organisms eat in the profundal zone of a lake?
The variation in a sample can be represented by what quantity, which means the total spread of values?
A protein’s shape is determined, most fundamentally, by the sequence of what type of acids?
What are the 3 types of tissues that modern plants have?
Tropomyosin is a type of what, that winds around the chains of the actin filament and covers the myosin-binding sites to prevent actin from binding to myosin?
Which group of the periodic table consists of hydrogen and the alkali metals?
What helps frogs swim during the tadpole phase?
What kind of radiation can be used to disrupt the dna-rna protein synthesis cycle that allows bacteria to reproduce?
The adult cells that form the butterfly begin growing in what developmental stage?
What is the simplest type of carbon-based compounds?
What kinds of cells that are important to our physical functioning can atrophy when they are not used?
Dengue fever and yellow fever are examples of diseases caused by what type of pathogen?
The geologic time scale is divided into eons, eras, periods, and?
What molecule is used for most energy functions in organisms?
Which part of the nephron collects wastes in the blood?
What kind of behavior occurs only after experience or practice?
The right side of the heart collects what type of blood from the body?
Hot material from near the sun’s center rises in which zone?
The presence of what in leaf cells makes most leaves appear green?
What is the name of the project concerning genetics that is one of the landmark scientific events of the last 50 years?
Wind is one method for dispersal of what, ensuring a new generation?
Most ecosystems are disturbed too often to attain what final, stable status?
What kind of diet is typical for raptors, such as hawks and owls?
The most basic division of land plants is between what type of plants?
What do vaccines produce to combat viral diseases?
Internal functions are coordinated and regulated so that the internal environment of a living thing is relatively constant, referred to as what?
What is a long, tube-shaped bundle of neurons, protected by the vertebrae?
What does the kelvin scale measure?
Ash that enters the air naturally as a result of a volcano eruption is classified as what kind of pollutant?
What happens when an increase in temperature of a gas in a rigid container happens?
Which reaction between alkyl halides and ammonia makes alkylamines?
Genes are organized to make the control of gene expression easier. the promoter region is immediately upstream of this?
Which phylum is made up of segmented worms such as earthworms?
What is the transfer of thermal energy between substances called?
What functional units of chromosomes determine specific characteristics by coding for specific proteins?
Aside from light, incandescent light bulbs also give off what that wastes energy?
What is an alpha particle with two protons and two neutrons called?
Just as the reaction of a diol and a diacid forms a polyester, the reaction of a diacid and a diamine yields this?
Structural rearrangements of what include partial duplications, deletions, inversions, and translocations; duplications and deletions often produce offspring that survive but exhibit physical and mental abnormalities?
The e. coli chromosome, like many other bacterial chromosomes, is what shape?
What is the force of attraction between two masses?
Chordates include vertebrates and invertebrates that have what?
Nearly how many millions of people die yearly due to air pollution?
What instrument is used to record the length and strength of an earthquake?
Skeletal muscles must work in pairs to move bones back and forth at a joint because they can only do what?
What type of molecules are secreted by the cell in local signaling?
Pulmonary ventilation in mammals occurs via what?
Chemical signals are received by the target cell on what?
What kind of organisms are prokaryotes?
What act like filters and remove pathogens from lymph?
What are the primary cells of adaptive immune response?
What term refers to the friction of fluid, within itself and its surroundings?
What do you call a unique substance formed when two or more elements combine chemically?
Caves form over time when what causes rocks like limestone to dissolve?
Cycloalkanes are hydrocarbons whose molecules are closed rings rather than straight or branched chains. a cyclic hydrocarbon is a hydrocarbon with a ring of these?
Speciation, convergent evolution, and coevolution are types of what process?
In what state do ionic compounds best conduct electricity?
What type of protein fibers in the cytoskeleton are the narrowest?
Which layer of the earth is molten?
What is the general name for a solid material that is formed via a natural process?
In a photosystem, pigments in the light-harvesting complex pass light energy to two special molecules of what in the reaction center?
What branch of science is the study of matter and energy?
What make us sick when they become human parasites?
The tendency of an object to resist a change in its motion is called?
Contributing to the blood-brain barrier is one of the jobs of glial cells, which support neurons in what system?
During the condensation reaction of sugars what is removed, linking the two sugars?
What develops into embryos inside seeds, from which the next sporophyte generation grows?
A change in temperature with distance is called a what?
What sac, which was sitting on top of the flat embryo, envelops the embryo as it folds?
Catecholamines are a class of amine hormones synthesised form which amino acid?
Regulation of hormone production hormone levels are primarily controlled through negative feedback, in which rising levels of a hormone inhibit its?
Androgen secretion and sperm production are both controlled by hypothalamic and which other hormones?
The sum of the superscripts in an electron configuration is equal to the number of electrons in that atom, which is in turn equal to what number?
What part of the brain controls body position, coordination, and balance?
When light transfers its energy to objects, this is known as what?
What do most amphibians breathe with as larvae?
The chemical used by the ants to weed their garden turns out to be what kind?
A common age-related bone disease in which bone density and strength is decreased is know as what?
Some fruit, like peaches, only have one big seed. what is this seed called?
Dragonflies were one of the first insects to do what?
Intestinal cells combine with proteins to create what?
Dutch elm trees used to be common, beautiful trees in the united states. now most of them have been killed by what?
Two major types of fungus-like protists are slime molds and which other?
What are broken down during digestion to provide the amino acids needed for protein synthesis?
A group of atoms that results when one hydrogen atom is removed from an alkane is referred to as what?
What is the term for stored energy that an object has due to its position or shape?
What force is greater on rougher surfaces than smooth surfaces?
Nitrogen is a very important element to living things, because it is part of nucleotides and amino acids that are the building blocks of nucleic acids and these?
In the mouth, enzymes present in what begin to chemically break down food?
Unlike the cells of plants and fungi, animal cells lack what?
Because alkali metals are so reactive, they are found in nature only in ________ with other elements?
What is the plane that divides the body or an organ vertically into right and left sides?
What are the organs work together to allow us to see?
The brain develops from this early tube structure and gives rise to specific regions of the adult brain. as the neural tube grows and differentiates, it enlarges into three vesicles that correspond to the forebrain, midbrain, and this?
Biotechnology uses what to solve problems?
What are hurricanes called in the pacific?
What is the organ in which gas exchanges take place between blood and air?
What branch of science deals with the effects people have on the environment?
Sickle cell anemia is what type of disorder?
Which region is just posterior to the mouth?
What is the collective travel of sheep known as?
What are these examples of: a person riding a carousel and a skydiver in free fall?
Elements below the second period, such as silicon, do not form what as readily as second-period elements, and when they do form, they are weaker than those formed by second-period elements?
Through what method or methods of fertilization do amphibians sexually reproduce?
The distance between corresponding points of adjacent waves is known as the __________
Which system consists of all the nervous tissue that lies outside the central nervous system?
What mechanism is used by living organisms to pass along genes?
The third line of defense of the immune system is called?
What's it called when gases turn back into liquids?
What is a molecule made up of two subunits?
The pulmonary artery carries deoxygenated blood into the lungs from this?
All of the living things in an area and the nonliving environment together make up what?
What areas of the planet are most birds native to?
What is the basis of enzyme classification?
Scientists use the principles of what to make predictions, which they then test?
How many membranes form the mitochondrion structure of a cell?
Lava that enters the water is called what?
What do we call plants that shed their leaves seasonally each year?
What do some animals use to get a feel for their environment?
Gas particles are constantly colliding with each other and the walls of a container, and these collisions are elastic, so there is no net loss of what?
How do birds learn to avoid eating monarch butterflies?
What part of the sperm contains the genetic material?
Multiple sclerosis, huntington’s disease, and parkinson’s disease all affect what body system?
The force that blood exerts upon the walls of the blood vessels or upon the chambers of the heart is known as blood what?
What is the term for the amount of internal energy that the substance can store?
An aquifer is an underground layer of rock that is saturated with what?
Oysters require a certain minimum population density because they must be in close proximity to do this?
Rubber is an example of what type of substances that do not allow electrons to move through them?
What gland is located in the neck, where it wraps around the trachea?
What is influences the inhibition of axillary buds by an apical bud?
The colorless, odorless gas released when we breath is carbon dioxide. the harmful colorless, odorless gas released when matter is burned is what?
How are bacteria cells similar to our cells?
What kind of health problem can occur in the kidney and potentially cause problems with urination?
What can alkenes and alkynes be reduced with to form alkanes?
The vapor pressures of various liquids depends primarily on the strength of what kind of attractions between individual particles?
What is the term for a structure within the cytoplasm that performs a specific job in the cell?
The two members of a given pair of chromosomes are called what?
What type of organism is used to produce alcoholic beverages and bread?
On top of the otolithic membrane is a layer of calcium carbonate crystals, called what?
What do we call the locations where electrons are likely to be located around the nucleus?
What makes up the central nervous system?
Obligate anaerobes live and grow in the absence of what?
What is the common term for single-celled fungi?
What process allows particles too large to move along the stream bed?
Conducting wires have a small degree of what?
What allowed life to expand and diversify during the early cambrian period?
What do you call the fast-moving air currents high in the troposphere?
What describes a close and long-term interaction between different species?
Rudolf virchow developed the hypothesis that cells only come from other cells in what year?
Because they have free electrons, metals are able to conduct what?
What are oil in folded layers of rock called?
Lymph vessels are like blood vessels, except they move what instead of blood?
During the first several weeks of development, the cells of the endometrium nourish what?
Which type of joints do not allow any movement of the bones?
What type of waves carry energy through matter or space as vibrating electric and magnetic fields?
What happens when water is removed from the endospore?
What is the term for the intentional release or spread of agents of disease?
Two important types of waves include longitudinal waves and what other kind?
The motion of stars in galaxies imply that there is about 10 times as much what as in the luminous objects we can see?
Polymers, ceramics, adhesives, coatings, and liquid crystals are examples of materials recently discovered or developed by what type of scientists?
What does the urethra do?
What is the term used to measure the intensity of sound waves?
What can be thought of as the most biologically productive regions on earth?
What is the scientific term for farsightedness?
During fetal development of the heart, what does the bulbus cordis develop into?
A more crucial use of rc circuits for timing purposes is in the artificial pacemaker, used to control what?
What causes earthquakes at mid-ocean ridges to be small and shallow?
Most geological activity takes place where?
What do we call the amount of time it will take for half of the radioactive material to decay?
What are organisms that depend on other living things for food?
Which part of the nerve cell helps transmit nerve impulses?
Mount kilimanjaro has ________ climates at the top and bottom?
What physical process occurs when large chunks of food are broken down into smaller pieces?
What is the term for the early growth and development of a plant embryo inside a seed?
Elements are either metals, nonmetals, or what?
Shield volcanoes often form along which locations?
What is the study of the vital statistics of populations and how they change over time?
Compared to free-floating bacteria, bacteria in biofilms often show increased resistance to what?
What type of energy travels in waves across space as well as through matter?
If an elephant and a boy are falling towards the ground, who will land first?
Designed to support the weight of the upper body when sitting and transfer this weight to the lower limbs when standing, what body structure consists of four bones: right and left hip bones, sacrum, and coccyx?
Of all the electromagnetic waves, which have the lowest frequencies?
What do you call reversible changes that do not change matter’s chemical makeup or chemical properties?
Free atoms are spherical in shape, so the relative sizes of the elements can be compared by looking at each atom's atomic what?
What types of energy is released during a chemical reaction?
What is the most common type of organic compound?
Hormones, ions, and neurotransmitters are all types of what?
What explains why water molecules tend to stick together?
The maturing follicle, containing a fluid-filled cavity, enlarges, forming a bulge near the surface of what?
Storm surge is very high water located in the low pressure eye of what?
What is a waste product from fossil fuel burning?
Carbon dioxide is an example of a material that easily undergoes what?
What is the term for daily cycles of behavior, like the sleep-wake cycle?
What organ senses sound?
The total energy assimilated by an ecosystem in a give period is known as what?
Class bivalvia (“two shells”) includes clams, oysters, mussels, scallops, and these?
When does a caldera form?
The mass lost in mass defect has gone into energy called what?
What is used for the fermentation process that makes beer, wine, and bread?
Plant viruses can seriously disrupt crop growth and development, significantly affecting our what?
In the past, biologists grouped living organisms into five kingdoms: animals, plants, fungi, protists, and what?
What kind of joints allow for a wide range of flexibility?
The human body wants to maintain equilibrium or balance, also known as what?
Natural gas, such as those burned by gas stoves, is composed mostly of this?
Which is the process through which leaves collect sunlight and make food?
What model describes the structure of the plasma membrane as a mosaic of components?
The hot liquid rock on the surface is called what?
The first consumption of breast milk or formula floods the newborn’s sterile gastrointestinal tract with beneficial what?
Clouds are formed from what?
After spermatids form, they move where to mature into sperm?
Matter can exist either as a pure substance or as a combination of what?
What is the separation of compounds on the basis of their solubilities in a given solvent?
Triploblasts include a broad range of animals, from flatworms to arthropods to what?
What is the release of particles and/or energy from the nucleus of an atom described as?
Through which process do behaviors that improve fitness increase?
Enzymes - proteins which speed up what?
What do you call the sudden flow of mud down a slope because of gravity?
What causes acid rain, ozone depletion, and global warming?
The amniotes are distinguished from amphibians by the presence of a terrestrially adapted egg protected by what?
The cells of what basic plant structure lack chloroplasts?
What muscle in the chest helps inflate and deflate the lungs?
Where in the lungs does gas exchange between the air and blood takes place?
What are hollow cylinders and are the thickest of the cytoskeleton structures?
What simple sugar is the cell's primary source of energy?
What is the approximate population on the earth?
A change in the sequence of bases in dna or rna is called a what?
What is the product of microfilament movement powered by chemical energy?
What is a measure of how much energy is needed to change the temperature of a substance?
What is the common term for animals in the phylum porifera?
What term is used to describe a change in the characteristics of living things over time?
What can accept a wide range of carbohydrates for catabolism?
What includes all living things within all their environments, including everywhere life exists, from the upper atmosphere, to the top of the soil, to ocean bottoms?
What is unique and found in all living things because it can form up to four covalent bonds between atoms or molecules?
What kind of rock is gypsum?
What component of a prokaryote is unique in  molecular composition and mechanism of propulsion?
The sum of the masses of the atoms in the formula is referred to as what?
What size of ring will a summer drought cause in a tree?
What is the technical term for species that produce their own body heat and regulate their internal temperature independently of the outside temperature?
What is the transparent outer covering of the eye?
Photoreceptors in each ocellus receive light only through the opening where there are none of which cells?
What helps form the walls of internal organs such as the heart and stomach?
How many valence electrons does helium have?
What is continuously changing within a circuit in an analog signal?
What is made and stored primarily in the cells of the liver and muscles?
Electromagnetic waves vary in wavelength and in what property, which is lower in waves of longer wavelengths?
In the case of transverse waves, the movement of the medium is perpendicular to the direction of the what?
Inserting an extra plane of atoms into a crystal lattice produces what?
The core of a nuclear reactor generates a large amount of what type of energy from the decay of fission products, even when the power-producing fission chain reaction is turned off?
Electric current is measured in coulombs per second, also called what?
What is the name of the "point" that refers to the temperature at which water vapor condenses?
Body plans do provide a succinct way to compare and contrast what?
Once classified as plants, fungi have chitin rather than cellulose in what cell structures?
What type of oceans are hostile to algae and cytoplankton?
Organelles whose membranes are specialized for aerobic respiration are called what?
The regions of a material where the north and south poles of atoms are aligned are called what?
What is another term for body chromosomes?
Unlike amphibians, reptiles do not have what stage?
What basic plant structure can add support and anchorage?
Locus refers to the position of what on a chromosome, which controls the characteristics of an organism?
Fish hatch into larvae that are different from the adult form of?
What kind of islands provide natural protection to shorelines?
Fruit-eating bats receive food from plants and, in return, help these plants by doing what?
What is determined by the amount of energy in molecules?
Biomass is the mass of biological what?
The primary nitrogenous waste material secreted by ureotelic animals is what substance?
What system makes sure leaked blood returns back to the bloodstream?
Enthalpy changes are measured by using what?
The cell walls of fungi are made of what?
When blood engorged capillaries leak fluid into neighboring tissues, what occurs?
Will contour lines ever cross?
Species of organisms that have permanently died out can also be called what?
Are the majority of archaea chemotrophs or photosynthetic?
Oxygen is essentially just a waste product of the light reactions of what?
What is the process by which almost all plants make food?
Some enzymes require the presence of a non-protein molecule to function properly. what is that molecule called?
What stimulates the changes of pubery?
What are the male reproductive cells called?
What is one function of the nervous system in humans?
What is the diversity of living things called?
What kind of mammalian reproduction is risky for the offspring but not the mother?
What do we call the force of attraction or repulsion between electrically charged particles?
Mendeleev organized what basic units into rows and columns?
What do you call compounds that have covalent bonds?
What is the term for magma that erupts onto earth's surface?
What changes nitrogen gas from the atmosphere to nitrogen compounds that plants can absorb?
In vertebrates, ovipary, ovovivipary, and vivipary are different strategies for what vital process?
What waves do radio and television use?
Which factor causes a cannon ball to move horizontally and then fall on the ground?
What do electrons lose during their transfer from organic compounds to oxygen?
What are plastids that contain other pigments?
Each species of legume is associated with a strain of __________
Algae convert energy from the sun into food by means of what process?
Which process helps provide cleaner water for agriculture?
What element is an essential part of many molecules needed by living organisms?
An atom is the smallest unit of what that maintains the identity of the latter?
When a solution freezes, only what particles come together to form a solid phase, while the presence of solute particles interferes with that process?
Liquefaction ccurs when the molecules of a gas are cooled to the point where they no longer possess sufficient kinetic energy to overcome what?
What is the term for the series of life stages and events that a sexually reproducing organism goes through?
What is absorbed from food waste in the large intestine before it passes out of the body as feces?
What do hydrocarbons consist of?
A major diversification of what animal group occurred about 50 million years ago, possibly spurred by worldwide climate change?
Like a house, your body has what kind of mechanism that responds to changes in temperature?
An isometric type of what occurs as the muscle produces tension without changing the angle of a skeletal joint?
What are important coenzymes or precursors of coenzymes, and are required for enzymes to function properly?
What have cell-surface antigen receptors for foreign molecules?
In birds, modified front legs are actually what?
The number of waves that pass a fixed point in a given amount of time is called what?
How does litmus paper indicate the ph value of a solution?
What is another term for movable joints?
What device is a magnetic disc that provides long-term storage for programs and data?
Debroglie proposed in 1924 that any object exhibits a wavelength that is inversely proportional to its?
What travels at the interface between the sea surface and the atmosphere?
What is the only light that humans can see?
What directs the amino acids to be introduced into the growing protein chain in the proper sequence?
Cellular respiration in humans involves the combustion of what simple sugar?
What still causes fatal lung disease in nonsmokers?
Like ants and termites, they grow fungi inside the bark of trees and use it to help do what?
For fertilization to occur in angiosperms, pollen has to be transferred to the stigma of what?
Exothermic reactions in organisms are called what?
Prior to birth, the lungs are filled with amniotic fluid, mucus, and what else?
At what point during a chemical reaction is there no net change?
The solution with the higher solute concentration is called what?
The three stages of transcription are initiation, elongation, and what?
A rounded hollow carved in the side of a mountain by a glacier is known as?
Where do most cnidarians live?
What do a group of cells that work together form?
Plants alternate between haploid and what?
Temperature is a measure of the motion (kinetic energy) of what?
What method do scientists use to answer questions?
What is the natural selection that favors altruistic behavior by enhancing reproductive success of relatives known as?
When a male directly deposits sperm in a female during mating, this is considered what type of fertilization?
What part of the body does the mycobacterium tuberculosis bacterium usually attack?
Conversely, very large forces are created by liquids and solids when they try to expand but are constrained from doing so—which is equivalent to compressing them to less than their normal volume. this often occurs when a contained material warms up, since most materials expand when they do this?
What helps regulate the production of urine?
In celsius, what is the temperature at which water freezes?
Which theory explains how materials can collide and become new materials?
What 3 types of friction occur between solid surfaces?
Name the 3 ocean zones.
Secondary consumers are usually carnivores that eat what?
What is the term for a period when temperatures are cooler than normal causing glaciers to spread to lower latitudes?
Cody's velocity is zero so therefore he doesn't have what?
Human population is growing exponentially and humans have increased what normally limiting factor through technology, urbanization, and harnessing the energy of fossil fuels?
Amides are carbonyls attached to one nitrogen atom and one carbon or which other atom?
The epidermis of the leaf consists of a single layer of which cells?
What is beneath the cerebrum and includes the thalamus and hypothalamus?
What is the raw material for evolution by natural selection called?
The changing of a light ray’s direction (loosely called bending) when it passes through variations in matter is called this?
What decreases with the loss of subsequent protons?
What is defined as a loss of hydrogen atoms?
Natural gas is often found along with what other fossil fuels in underground deposits?
What term is used to describe cells without a nucleus?
What is used to carry out metric unit conversions?
If solutions of differing osmolarities are present on opposite sides of a semipermeable membrane, solvent will transfer from what to what, in terms of osmolarity of the solution?
What do populations gain through births and immigration?
What is it called when plants release water vapor through their leaves?
What do you call the atomic "ingredients" that go into a chemical reaction?
What is stacked in layers in "layer cake geology"?
A spontaneous change process called neutrino oscillations can occur only if neutrinos have what property?
What type of plate is an island arc found on?
How do you calculate the atomic mass of an element?
The cytoskeleton is a cellular "scaffolding" or "skeleton" that crisscrosses what?
In animal cells, what arises from the centrosomes and includes spindle microtubules and asters?
What's the term for a relationship between two organisms where at least one benefits?
Drip iirigation requires less water and reduces what?
What term refers to a wall or partition that divides the heart into chambers?
What mammal is the most intelligent?
What is the primary force driving fluid transport between the capillaries and tissues?
Mercury is small, rocky and covered with what objects?
Heat expansion is a result of the increase of what type of energy, exhibited by molecules bumping together?
What is the molecular formula of carbon dioxide?
What organism constitutes frothy green "pond scum"?
Spontaneous reactions release what type of energy, meaning it is available to do work?
Why do butterfly fish have fake eyespots?
Is urea or salt reabsorbed faster?
Glucose is an example of what simple carboyhydrates with relatively few carbon atoms?
Chemical energy results from the particular arrangement of atoms in a chemical compound; the heat and light produced in this reaction are due to energy released during the breaking and reforming of what?
The visible surface of the sun is called what?
Which system is capable of responding quickly to changing situations?
What two substances do plants give off when they make food?
What kind of energy positions do electrons occupy during ground state?
What are metals and good electrical conductors that tend to lose their valence electrons in chemical reactions called?
What is the term for liquid water falling from the sky?
What term did schrödinger use for regions around the nucleus where electrons are most likely to be?
What exactly happens during rna translation?
How long are microfilaments?
What is the area around the nucleus of an atom where electrons are likely to be, called?
What type of matter in the spinal cord has the appearance of an ink-blot test and is subdivided into regions that are referred to as horns?
What type of sedimentary rocks are made of minerals that precipitate from saline water?
Sexual reproduction involves the production of haploid gametes by what?
What is emitted by nuclei in alpha, beta, and gamma decay?
What do we call the recycling of inorganic matter between living organisms and their environment?
The tensor fascia latae acts as what, in relation to the gluteus medius and iliopsoas, for the purpose of flexing and abducting the thigh?
What cellular process is controlled by allosteric enzymes at key points in glycolysis and the citric acid cycle?
What is the main function of the cardiovascular system?
What happens to water when it is heated in the broiler?
What atoms make up a water molecule?
What leads to the buildup of electric charges on objects?
What is it called when body’s internal environment is stable?
Precipitation, evaporation, transpiration, and condensation are part of what cycle?
Life span is distinct from what, which means the sequence of stages a plant goes through from seed germination to seed production of the mature plant?
What is it called when the soils of the arctic tundra remain in a perennially frozen state?
The three classes of elements are metals, nonmetals, and what?
What do you call the fixed point of a lever?
What process tends to be external in aquatic species and internal in terrestrial species?
Which electromagnetic radiation is used to kill cancer cells?
What is the term for going into a dormant state during the winter?
Shrimp are an example of what group within the arthropods?
Many enzymes are simple proteins consisting entirely of one or more of these?
What property of carbon and other elements can be used to date fossils and rocks, among other things?
A solution is what type of mixture, where the dissolved particles are spread evenly through the mixture?
The base in an antacid reacts to do what to excess stomach acid?
In single-celled organisms, what does the plasma membrane extensions help the organisms to do?
Red-green color blindness is an example of a sex-linked condition caused by what?
What can be switched off by a protein called the trp repressor?
What is the name of vesicles that are formed by the golgi apparatus?
What is the term for the arrangement of veins in a leaf?
Anabolic reactions require energy, so they are considered what type of reaction?
Lack of which attachment makes ester molecules incapable of intermolecular hydrogen bonding?
Viruses need what kind of cell in order to help themselves reproduce?
Although vitamins and minerals do not provide what, they are still essential for good health?
What is the science of how living things interact with each other and their environment?
What function does a vacuole do for a cell?
Sight, hearing, balance, taste, smell, and touch are types of what?
During grafting, the part of the plant that is grafted is called?
What is a winding ridge of sand deposited by a stream of meltwater called?
What is a measure of the change in velocity of a moving object?
Sympatric type of what occurs when a single population of organisms splits into two reproductively isolated communities within the same physical region?
Each atom has a required number of what?
When the volume of a gas is decreased, what happens to its pressure?
Exposure to what causes skin color to darken?
What colorful phenomenon occurs in the northern sky when particles from the sun energize ions in the thermosphere?
By what processes does the ocean modify landforms?
The term “vapor” refers to the gas phase when it exists at a temperature below what?
Hypertension, or high blood pressure, can increase the risk of what?
The carbon atoms are bonded together, with each carbon also being bonded to two of what kind of atoms?
What is the final stage of cell division in eukaryotes as well as prokaryotes?
The metacarpophalangeal joints in the finger are examples of what kind of joints?
What is idefined as the mass of a substance divided by its volume?
What does the kyoto protocol focus on controlling?
A van de graff generator produces what type of charge on its dome, causing the tendency to give up electrons?
What forms the small holes found in bread?
In order to conduct what, electrons must move from the filled valence band to the empty conduction band where they can move throughout the solid?
Conductive losses in the middle ear can be partially overcome by sending sound vibrations to what structure through the skull, the principle behind implants for hearing loss patients?
What is the term for the fast-moving air currents high in the troposphere?
Vibrating electric and magnetic fields make up what kinds of waves?
What do you call the regular changes in biology or behavior that occur in a 24-hour cycle?
The electric and magnetic fields are closely related and propagate as what?
What do you get by multiplying volume by the density of water?
Plant-like protists are autotrophs capable of what process?
What type of energy is useful to humans because it's ease of transport and conversion to other forms of energy?
When performing anaerobic exercise, your muscles work against what?
What type of doctor specializes in the laboratory detection of disease?
The smallest unit of structure and function in all living organisms is what?
Bilaterally symmetrical animals have both dorsal and what type of sides?
Which state of matter is not common on earth?
Which system of the body is responsible for bringing air into the body?
The photoreceptive cells of the eye, where transduction of light to nervous impulses occurs, are located in this?
E. coli need what kind of acids to survive?
Elements are defined by their atomic number, a number that describes the amount of what in the element?
What laboratory instrument is used to analyze and test for static charge?
Through a succession of mitotic cell divisions, what gives rise to a large number of cells?
Contour tillage helps slow water run-off and what process that causes topsoil loss?
In a scientific experiment, the variable that is affected by the other one is called what?
Cells must also be able to separate their relatively stable interior from what?
For any given species, what term means the maximum population that can be supported by the environment?
With an increased understanding of gene regulation and gene function, medicines can be designed to specifically target diseased cells without harming these?
The rate of a reaction can be expressed either in terms of the decrease in the amount of what or the increase in the amount of a product per unit time?
What do molecules need to do for a reaction to take place?
What is the term for the change in temperature with distance?
How many classes of biochemical compounds are there?
The fact that all animals have certain traits in common shows that they share what?
Organisms that live in freshwater environments often possess a contractile vacuole that prevents cells from taking in too much water through what process?
What is the condition in which the thyroid gland is overactive is known as?
Where do amphibians lay their eggs?
The food particles are caught by the collar of the choanocyte and brought into the cell by what process?
In seedless vascular plants such as ferns, the sporophyte releases spores from the undersides of what basic plant structures?
There are two basic body plans in cnidarians which are called the polyp and what else?
In science, what is a bit of information that is true?
What kind of potentially harmful compounds can barbecuing food create?
Change in what equals the average net external force multiplied by the time this force acts?
What type of mammals are characterized by detailed development of the hands and feet, a shortened snout, and a large brain?
What process allows an individual to develop from a single cell into an organism with trillions of cells?
What do you call the membrane-bounded droplets that have some properties of cells?
Bees are naturalized on every continent except which?
In arthropods, coxal glands and malphigian tubules perform what role?
What is the ultimate source of energy for all life on earth?
What do you call compounds whose properties are different because their atoms are bonded together in different arrangements?
What celestial object has been visited by manned spacecraft and is easily seen from earth?
What do you call a condition caused by mutations in one or more genes?
What is the common term for erythrocytesare, specialized cells that circulate delivering oxygen to cells and are formed from stem cells in the bone marrow?
When do glaciers deposit their sediment?
One of the earliest air pumps was made by?
Terrestrial biomes are determined mainly by what?
What are scientists able to determine about stars using emission and absorption spectra?
Scientists search for answers to questions and solutions to problems by using a procedure called this?
What transmits nerve impulses to other cells?
The active transport of ions across the membrane causes an electrical gradient to build up across the what?
What process determines which of two fossils is older or younger than the other?
Under which process do living things with beneficial traits produce more offspring?
Biceps brachii, brachialis, and brachioradialis work to flex what part of the body?
Cancer involves what changes that modify cell-cycle control and alter the growth rate or progression of the cell through the cell cycle?
Glucose, fructose, and galactose are hexose sugars, which contain six atoms of what element?
When an action and reaction occur, what is transferred from one object to the other, yet in combination it remains the same?
Which two planetary bodies have humans walked on?
The pion can only be created by violating the conservation of what?
What are named for their “spiny skin”?
What is formed when sperm mixes with secretions from the various other glands of the reproductive system?
Some plants have stolons, or stems, that run along the ground and are commonly called what?
Clearing land for agriculture and development is a major cause of what negative result?
What in the skin dilates, or widens, in order to increase blood flow to the bodys surface?
What burns to produce the white light in fireworks displays?
Solids can be divided into amorphous solids and which other group?
Some earthworms can also reproduce asexually by fragmentation followed by what?
Most crustaceans have separate sexes, so they reproduce sexually using what?
Visible light is one type of this radiation?
Double-replacement reactions generally occur between substances in what kind of solution?
What happens to the recessive traits in the offspring of a hybridization?
What is a small, spherical compartment separated by at least one lipid layer from the cytosol?
What term is used to describe is the increased or decreased speed of movement of an organism in response to a stimulus?
How can natural resources be classified from a human point of view?
What are the two types of endoplasmic reticulum?
We know from what type of waves produced by earthquakes that parts of the interior of the earth are liquid?
Radiocarbon is useful for dating relatively young materials with what element as their base?
Why are eutherian mammals sometimes called placental mammals?
What is the name for the division of the cytoplasm in eukaryotic cells, resulting in two genetically identical daughter cells?
How can you prevent food allergy symptoms?
Ground tissue forms the interior of the stem. the large central vacuoles of ground tissue cells fill with water to support the plant. the cells may also store what?
Insect wings are part of the exoskeleton and attached to the what?
What was the informal female name given to the adult fossil found in ethiopia and thought to be over 3 million years old?
What is the term for a formula that shows the elements in a compound in their lowest whole-number ratio?
What is defined as the spreading of white light into its full spectrum of wavelengths?
What is used in the growth, development, functioning and reproduction of all known living organisms and many viruses?
When methane burns, what is produced along with carbon dioxide?
What helps pumice float in water?
What land mammal has the longest gestation period?
What sustains the fetus while it grows inside the mother’s uterus?
Two kinds of sex hormones are of particular importance in females: progesterone, which prepares the uterus for pregnancy and prevents the further release of eggs from the ovaries during pregnancy, and the estrogens, which are mainly responsible for the development of female secondary sexual characteristics, such as breast development and increased deposition of this?
Zoonotic pathogens are transferred from what to what?
Restriction enzymes or restriction endonucleases are prokaryotic enzymes that recognize and cut what at specific sequences?
What are chemical reactions represented by?
The length of the sloped surface of a ramp is referred to as what?
Producers, primary consumers, higher-level consumers, and decomposers are levels in what?
Parthenogenis in komodo dragons is an example of what kind of reproduction, whereby offspring are created from just one parent?
The value that occurs most often in a data set is called the?
Over time, deposited sediments may harden into what?
What is the most useful quantity for counting particles?
What is the failure of replicated chromosomes during meiosis to separate known as?
In angiosperms, flowers and fruits are adaptations essential for what process?
Through what part do exocrine glands discharge their contents?
Where do plankton, nekton, and benthos live?
What gland is a butterfly-shaped organ located in the neck anterior to the trachea?
What cause the rippled surface of the ocean?
What small glands are abundant within the mucous membranes of the mouth and tongue?
What is the term for the development of an embryo inside an egg within the mother’s body until it hatches?
Where does carbohydrate digestion begin in the body?
When did new plants start sprouting after the forest fire?
What are the largest known proteins called?
Metals, fossil fuels, and water are all examples of what type of resource?
What is the force that causes centripetal acceleration?
Pressure and ________ are directly proportional at a constant volume?
What is the process by which plants capture the energy of sunlight and use carbon dioxide from the air (and water) to make their own food called?
Categorized based on how they produce their mrna using the baltimore classification method, what consist of a nucleic acid core surrounded by a protein capsid with or without an outer lipid envelope?
Primary alcohols are oxidized to form what?
Where does electric power originate?
What type of fertilization do most reptiles use to reproduce?
Visible light is part of what spectrum?
Amino acids are made by which kind of plastid?
The amount of power passed through transmission lines can be calculated by multiplying voltage by what?
When a balloon is rubbed against hair, they attract each other because of a difference in what?
The cell starting meiosis is called a what?
A wave is the transfer of energy through what else?
What nest of cells protect the egg as it matures in the ovary?
Why do beer brewers add yeast to the wort?
Amino acids broken down by metabolic process are mostly recycled into new what?
What type of logic can lead to important conclusions from the collecting and analyzing of observations?
Screws move objects to a higher elevation by increasing what?
What is the second state of photosynthesis?
What is the only amphibian without legs?
Most organisms could not survive without what being present to speed up biochemical reactions?
Metabolic cooperation between different prokaryotic species often occurs in surface-coating colonies. what are these colonies called?
What word describes a carbonyl where the carbon atom makes single bonds with two others?
The concentration of hydronium ions in a solution is known as what?
What do we call structures that are similar in related organisms because they were inherited from a common ancestor?
What is continually released during childbirth through a positive feedback mechanism and prompts uterine contractions to fetal head toward the cervix?
What is the addition of nucleotides to the mrna strand?
Wave amplitude and wavelength are two important measures of what?
What is the color of mercury(ii) oxide?
How many hydrogen atoms does a nitrogen atom of a primary amine have?
What ultimately results in the cycling of nutrients in ecosystems?
Platforms, arches, and sea stacks are all landforms created by what?
The state of matter - solid, liquid, or gas - is also considered what type of property?
Panting allows dogs to get rid of what?
What is the standard unit for mass?
The planets orbit around what celestial body?
What kind of behaviors are adaptive because they are flexible, capable of changing if the environment changes?
What is the term for a galaxy that is a rotating disk of stars and dust?
What occurs when a former inhabited area gets disturbed?
The chloroplasts contained within the green algal endosymbionts still are capable of what process associated with plants?
What do seismic waves prove about the inner core?
What is divided during cytokinesis?
Materials such as metals have low resistance to electric current, what are they called?
An alloy is a mixture of what with one or more other substances?
A can of warm soda will fizz more because increasing the temperature decreases the what of a gas?
What branch of biology studies animal behavior?
What does the esophagus connect to at its bottom end?
Hair is a component of which bodily system?
What type of electrons are electrons that are not confined to the bond between two atoms?
Electrons flow through wires to create what?
The ileocecal valve, a sphincter, is usually in a constricted state, but when motility in the ileum increases, this sphincter relaxes, allowing food residue to enter the first portion of what?
A sequence of amino acids in single polypeptide is the primary structure for what?
What type of chemicals do ants communicate with?
The age of a rock in years is its?
What organ eliminates solid wastes that remain after the digestion of food?
What is the term for when a species no longer exists?
What is the jelly-like material in which the contents of the cell are suspended?
What is the release of energy in the form of high energy electromagnetic waves?
Today, new elements are usually named after famous scientists. the names of the elements can be cumbersome to write in full, especially when combined to form the names of compounds. therefore, each element name is abbreviated as a one- or two-letter chemical this?
An infection may be intracellular or extracellular, depending on this?
Like all tetrapods except birds and mammals, frogs possess a heart with what structure?
Energy is the capacity to do work or to produce what?
In mammals, sound waves are collected by the external, cartilaginous part of the ear called the pinna, then travel through the auditory canal and cause vibration of the thin diaphragm called the tympanum or this?
Unlike ionic compounds, covalent compounds do not have freely moving what?
How do seed plants benefit from herbivores?
What is the process in which cells make proteins called?
How do you decrease errors in an experiment?
What term describes scientists who debate the origin of the earliest plants?
What anatomical system is made up of neurons and glia?
What term describes the overall ability of an animal to survive and produce offspring?
Production of abnormal white blood cells occurs in what cancer, which is the most common form in children?
How is the energy of an atomic orbital affected as the principal quantum number increases?
During the typical human female ovulation cycles, how many eggs are released?
Spores are the basic reproductive units of what organism?
During diastole, what happens to the elastic walls of the arteries?
Blood pressure is significantly affected by what physical force?
An electormagnet is a piece of iron inside a?
What term describes motion that repeats itself at regular time intervals, such as exhibited by a vibrating guitar string?
What form do biofuels take that makes them very useful?
Most of food's chemical energy ultimately comes from what source?
The northern spotted owl and the mexican spotted owl inhabit geographically separate locations with different climates and ecosystems. the owl is an example of?
Human actions such as plowing, logging, construction and other actions contribute to what kind of erosion?
Why does the fish odour diminish when you put lemon juice over cooked fish?
When additional water is added to an aqueous solution, what happens to the concentration of that solution?
How many chambers does a mammalian heart have?
Meaning a disease that spreads from person to person, what term is synonymous with "contagious"?
The common carotid artery gives rise to the external and internal carotid arteries. the external carotid artery remains superficial and gives rise to many arteries of this?
What are resources that don't run out?
Maintaining a balance inside the body or cells of organisms is known as?
The ability to what is affected by the velocity, or speed, of the water?
What is the process of isolating a specific gene and then making a copy of it for use in gene therapy?
The epochs of the universe are known back to very shortly after what 'explosive' event?
What is the term for a change in an object’s motion, which occurs whenever an object is acted upon by an unbalanced force?
All metabolic functions carried out by a prokaryote take place in the plasma membrane or where else?
How does burning matter affect its mass?
What type of stratified deposit is formed where lakes are covered by ice in the winter?
Where do greenhouse gases trap heat?
The hamstrings flex the leg, whereas the quadriceps femoris have what effect?
Many ceramics are composed of what, which are salts containing anions composed of silicon and oxygen?
Attaching strips of neutral metals that are higher in the activity series can protect a structure from what?
Weight is a measure of what force pulling down on an object?
What organ absorbs about 90 percent of the water you ingest?
In drosophila, gradients of morphogens encoded by maternal effect genes determine what?
What features of a salamander's skin help protect itself from predators ?
Precipitation maps show the amount of what in different areas?
What is a germ cell that divides into gametocytes during gametogenesis?
The saguaro doesn't have any leaves to lose water by which process?
What is the most important source of energy on earth?
What do cyclotrons use to cause particles to move in circular orbits?
An example of a variable relating to the ramp is its what?
Deep within the earth what force is so great that a rock behaves like a stretched rubber band?
What shape is the colony of a volvox cell?
What do puffer fish produce to protect itself?
What are polymers composed of many sugar building blocks called?
Most gas molecules in the atmosphere are pulled close to earth’s surface by what force?
Coral reefs and tropical rainforests are ecosystems known for what, contributing greatly to the species in existence on earth?
Gymnosperms and angiosperms are types of _________ seed plants.
Not getting enough calcium may cause what health problem?
What is the sequence of elementary steps that together comprise an entire chemical reaction called?
What is the clear, curved structure that works with the cornea to help focus light at the back of the eye?
What is the color of the powder of a mineral called?
What part of the plant anchors it into the soil?
Evolution happens because of what?
The nephron is the functional unit of what pair of organs?
Nonshivering thermogenesis, which involves the breakdown of brown adipose tissue, is a special methods newborns have for what purpose?
What do you call a predator species that affects other species' populations when its own population size changes?
What do you call the electrons in the outer energy level of an atom that are involved in chemical bonds?
How many valence electrons do neutral phosphorus atoms have?
What impact does photosynthesis have on the direction of electron flow?
In an experiment, what is kept constant so they will not affect the results, including affecting the dependent variable?
The rate of evaporation depends only on the surface area of the liquid and is essentially constant. the rate of condensation depends on the number of molecules in the vapor phase and increases steadily until it equals the rate of this?
What are the two main types of diabetes?
What function does the longer flagellae perform in dinoflagellates?
What are the three stages of water?
What is the first stage of cellular respiration?
Roundworms are intervertebrates that belong to which phylum?
The development of multi-cellular organisms begins from a single-celled zygote, which undergoes rapid cell division to form this?
While components of a mixture can be separated by physical means, the components of a pure substance can only be broken down through what means?
What is it called when pollen from one plant fertilizes another plant of the same species?
Calcium hydroxide and calcium carbonate are effective in neutralizing the effects of what on lakes?
Most of these bacterial illnesses can be prevented with proper cooking of food and washing what?
If something is in the state of matter where it has both a definite shape and volume, then what state of matter is it in?
What is the region known as the myelencephalon in the embryonic brain?
What involves the reaction of a hydrocarbon with oxygen gas to produce water and carbon dioxide?
What law states that matter cannot be created or destroyed?
The air bubbles resulting from cavitation expand and block water channels of the what?
Which gender typically experiences growth spurts first?
What are the only organisms that can decompose wood?
What part of the plant do nutrients enter?
What is a solid particle that is indestructible?
Activated macrophages and neutrophils discharge what that signals molecules that enhance an immune response?
The extracellular fluid is in contact with the axon membrane only at what location?
Muscarinic receptors can cause both depolarization or hyperpolarization depending on the what?
What does rising air do when it reaches the top of the troposphere?
The what is the number of wave cycles that pass a specified point in space in a specified amount of time?
Intermediate filaments tend to give the structural stability to what?
What is the process in which a layer of a second metal is deposited on the metal electrode that acts as the cathode during electrolysis?
What is the term for diseases in which blood does not clot normally?
Cardiomyocytes are striated muscle cells found where?
Which protein, that stores oxygen in muscle cells, has been purified from a number of organisms?
A membrane has what property if it can control what molecules or ions enter or leave the cell?
What is the term for the amount of space taken up by an object?
What is the most common form of cancer in women?
Exposure to what is the most common cause of hearing loss?
What basic plant structures generally have large surface areas and high surface-to-volume ratios?
What is the main component of phytoplankton?
Metabolic enzymes catalyze catabolic reactions that break down what?
Ponds and lakes are examples of what kind of biome?
The skeletons of humans and horses are examples of what?
What type of tissue transports water, nutrients, and food in plants?
Stomata are special pores that allow gasses to enter and exit what?
What is created when the wave source moves faster than the wave propagation speed?
In a transverse wave, the highest point the wave reaches is known as the?
Which orbitals do electrons fill first?
Many discrete characters are determined by a single gene locus with different alleles that produce distinct what?
What is the hardest type of coal?
All cells have voltages across their what?
Which is the largest planet in our solar system?
A crucial function of the cranial nerves is to keep visual stimuli centered on the fovea of what eye structure?
In what process is energy from the sun converted to stored chemical energy in an organism?
Sunlight gives plants the energy they need for what?
What is lowered when salts go into ion form?
What is produced during the hydrogenation of vegetable oils?
Where does fertilization usually take place?
What monitors the level of carbon dioxide in the blood?
When volume does not change, temperature is proportional to what other property?
Single-displacement reactions are a subset of what?
What is the process by which the substances you consume are taken up by the blood?
Why do electronegativities decrease from top to bottom?
What are the three types of symbiosis?
What term is used to describe the ability to change or move matter?
What measures exactly how much gravity is pulling on something?
Where do producers in an ecosystem generally get their energy from?
Generators usually transform kinetic energy into what kind of energy?
Most modern seed plants are angiosperms that produce seeds in the what of flowers?
Most enzymes are classified as what?
Each hemisphere of the brain contains regions called what that are involved in different functions?
Emphysema is a chronic disease caused by the breakdown of the what tissue?
Lactose is a disaccharide consisting of the monomers glucose and what?
Why does photosynthesis not occur in the deep-water zone?
What, now former, planet is small, icy, and rocky?
What process allows plants to convert light energy into sugars and energy for food?
What is the equation of power released?
Silencing genes through epigenetic mechanisms is commonly practiced on what type of uncontrolled cells?
Along with muscles, what helps the body move with relatively little force?
What process do all species use to make the next generation?
According to one of einstein's theory, while light consists of particles, it behaves like this.
Soil forms where land areas are what?
An estimated 99 percent of the species that have ever lived on earth no longer exist, showing that what event is common?
What type of energy is the energy of moving matter?
What does bile help to digest ?
A gene may have different versions called what?
Nonvascular plants lack  vascular tissue and what?
What is a mixture of metal with one or more other elements?
Pheromones enable what, which is vital for organisms like ants that live in a large community?
What is the part of the shadow that is partially lit called?
When a mountain stream flows onto flatter land and comes to a stop rapidly, what do the deposits form?
The processes of homeostasis and temperature control are centered in the hypothalamus of the advanced animal brain, thus thermoregulation depends on what organ system?
Light from objects at different distances is focused by what part of the eye?
Breaking a window with a baseball is an example of what kind of change in matter?
Scientists will often observe and then what the reason why a phenomenon occurred?
Similar to the coil on a stove, changes in what reflect an increase in the temperature of a star?
Proto-oncogenes are positive cell-cycle regulators but when mutated, they can become what?
When the maximum amount of solute has been dissolved in a given amount of solvent, we say that the solution is what?
What is the movement of substances across the membrane without the expenditure of cellular energy called?
What energy, produced by vibrations, cannot travel through empty space?
According to rutherford, where is the vast majority of the mass of an atom located?
What is the term for organisms that make their own food?
What happens to neutral matter when electrons are transferred between objects?
Seawalls and breakwaters are built parallel to what?
What is the term for the loss of one or more electrons by an atom?
What are the lipids containing phosphorus?
Ethers readily dissolve what type of molecules?
What are bones made up of?
When it is winter in the northern hemisphere the southern hemisphere experiences which season?
What happens when liquid water evaporates?
What vision defect occurs because the eye is too long?
What happens when a neutral atom gains or loses electrons?
Why are goose feathers preferred for stuffing by manufacturers?
What is the outermost part of the sun's atmosphere called?
What is the series of changes in the life of an organism?
The outer planets are made of hydrogen and helium, so they are termed what?
When a liquid is heated, molecules with enough kinetic energy escape the liquid and become what?
What property of an object is obtained by multiplying its mass and its velocity?
Solutions that are prepared in which a solute concentration exceeds its solubility are called what?
The word fungus comes from the latin word for what?
The part of a plant that is responsible for reproduction is the?
Isotopes have the same number of protons and electrons, but a different number of what?
Shivering and adipose tissue called brown fat are used by mammals in particular to produce what?
Where are the somas of sensory neurons located in the spinal cord?
The thick tunica media allows muscular arteries to play a leading role in what?
Why do crystals have relatively sharp and well-defined melting points?
In which area does conduction mainly happen?
What is secreted by the cells surrounding spermatogonia to help sperm production?
Chemical reactions either require or release what?
Energy that is released when a chemical reaction takes place is known as what?
What is the largest object in the solar system?
In ovoviviparous fish like shark, what develops inside the mother’s body but without nourishment from the mother?
What is the term for a technique used to separate out homogeneous mixtures in which one or more solids are dissolved in a liquid?
How do basal mammals like monotreme reproduce?
Abundant in unpolluted ponds and streams, planarians prey on smaller animals or feed on?
What does parasitic mean?
What scientist constructed a tree diagram, separating living organisms into three domains?
Most of the genes in the eukaryotic cell are found where?
What are known as the building blocks of proteins?
What are the three types of muscle tissue in the body?
The white mountains in new hampshire are part of what province?
What is the ratio of the uncertainty to the measured value, multiplied by one-hundred called?
What is produced by the sebaceous glands?
What do you call vesicle transport into the cell?
What are daily changes in the level of ocean water called?
What is the name of the narrow tube that begins at the stomach and ends at the large intestine?
What is the term for how close a measurement is to the true value?
What are the two most abundant elements in the universe?
What is the term for  a close relationship between two species in which at least one species benefits.
Atomic emission spectra are produced when excited electrons return to what state?
The lungs perform gas exchange using air and what fluid, which is coming and going from the heart?
In addition to glucose, what gas is used during cellular respiration?
Which germ layers are essential for animal embryos to grow and develop into a body?
Scrubbers and catalytic converters are examples of technologies that change what into harmless compounds?
What is the weighted average of the masses of all isotopes of an element called?
The ability of a water spider to walk across a body of water is an example of what?
What are compounds with the same molecular formula but different structures and properties called?
What happens when the blood cannot reach the heart because a blood vessel is blocked?
What kind of solid is characterized by an unorganized and unpredictable structure?
An object with more mass has greater thermal energy than an object with less mass because it has more what?
Ether molecules have an oxygen atom and can engage in hydrogen bonding with which other molecules?
What basic structures of the nervous system innervate the muscles of the respiratory system and are responsible for controlling and regulating pulmonary ventilation?
Pollutants in surface water can filter into the ground and enter a what?
What is the most common cause of dwarfism?
What describes how much matter is in a certain amount of space?
Axons pass what on to other cells?
Sister chromatids separate and move to opposite poles of the cell in the third phase of what process?
What is the distance that sound waves travel in a given amount of time called?
What would you call a relationship where the bacteria benefit and and the other organism is harmed?
What is the supply of water to land or crops to help growth called?
What form of matter has neither a definite shape nor a definite volume?
Which stage has already been completed by the time sea urchin eggs are released from the female?
Unlike pure substances, mixtures have a what?
What process does not cause a rock to melt completely, instead causing the minerals to change by heat or pressure?
A disaccharide is a pair of monosaccharides. disaccharides are formed via dehydration synthesis, and the bond linking them is referred to as a glycosidic bond (glyco- = “sugar”). three disaccharides (shown in figure 2.19) are important to humans. these are sucrose, commonly referred to as table sugar; lactose, or milk sugar; and maltose, or this?
At what age is skeletal maturity reached by humans?
What is most of earth's surface covered with?
What is the sac-like organ of the body that is important for both mechanical and chemical digestion?
All chemical reactions require what to get started?
Mitosis is nuclear division during which duplicated chromosomes are segregated and distributed into what?
Movement of water and minerals in the xylem solutes, pressure, gravity, and matric potential are all important for what?
The temperature of the box is related to the average speed of what?
What are organisms that eat just one type of food?
Mechanisms for establishing cellular asymmetries include morphogen gradients, localized determinants, and what other type of interactions?
Biodiversity hot spots are prime candidates for protection because they are prone to what species fate?
What are single-celled or colonial organisms that do not have membranebound nuclei?
Differences in density between water and air lead to differences in what?
What organizational tool, arguably the best in all of science, lists all the known chemical elements, arranged by atomic number?
Solvation involves surrounding ions with what?
The appendicular skeleton includes all bones of the upper and lower limbs, plus the bones that attach each limb to the what?
Cow manure can have a second life as a source of what gas?
Eggs reside in the mesohyl, but sperm are carried out of the sponge by what?
Population size influences the chances of a species surviving, with very small populations generally at greatest risk of what fate?
Sound is the transfer of energy from a vibrating object in waves that travel through what?
Sterols are a subgroup of what?
Cardiac muscle is only found where?
What process provides over 99 percent of the energy for life on earth?
Unlike energy, what doesn’t need to be constantly added to ecosystems because it is recycled through ecosystems?
A colloid is a homogeneous mixture with medium-sized what?
What causes rivers to always flow downhill?
What elements do water and hydrogen peroxide consist of?
Name the virus that causes cold sores.
Cardiac veins parallel the small cardiac arteries and generally drain into what sinus?
What is a dip slip fault where the dip of the fault plane is vertical?
The major entrance and exit for the respiratory system is which facial orifice?
Sexual reproduction is the combination of (usually haploid) reproductive cells from two individuals to form a third (usually diploid) unique offspring. sexual reproduction produces offspring with novel combinations of what?
What kind of reproduction involves just one parent and produces offspring genetically identical to each other and to the parent?
What do you call the hard case that surrounds the soft parts of some animals?
Choosing to not smoke and using sunscreen are examples of lifestyle choices that help prevent forms of what disease?
What is said about the speed of rotation in systems that create tornadoes?
In gas exchange, oxygen flows into the blood, and what flows out?
What happens during the process of digestion?
What do you call the folded layers of rock where geologists look for oil?
Cutting forests and clearing land has also increased the amount of what in the atmosphere?
Microevolution occurs in a population when what frequencies change over time?
What is the alkaline hydrolysis reaction of an ester called?
What is the time interval required for one complete wave to pass a point called?
Plant-like protists are autotrophs, meaning they make their own what?
In what form do plants and animals store sugar for later use?
What forces the fetus out of the uterus?
The large and small intestine are both divided into how many parts?
If everything in a system stays the same but the pressure deceases, gas bubbles will change in what way?
What do you call the transfer of thermal energy?
The outer layer of what anatomical structure is so tough that it keeps out most pathogens?
The process of a liquid becoming a gas is called boiling, while the process of a solid becoming a gas is called what?
How does the nucleus divide during nuclear fission?
How do heavy alkanes affect the skin?
If an electric current passes through water, water molecules break down into molecules of what?
What makes luminous dials glow in the dark?
What liquid is referred to as the "universal solvent"?
What is the active ingredient in cloves?
What term means the adjusting of systems within a cell in order to restore balance or maintain equilibrium?
What is the name of the formation that regulates sleep and arousal?
What do the gonadotropins regulate?
Valence electrons also determine how well—if at all—the atoms of an element conduct what?
What celestial bodies are born in clouds of gas and dust called nebulas?
What does a hydrolase use to split molecules?
What term is used to describe the transfer of thermal energy by particles moving through a fluid?
What is the source of precipitation?
How does bacteria reproduce?
What causes holes in bread?
Which bone is derived from the fusion of four very small coccygeal vertebrae?
Researchers have long based their hypotheses about animal phylogeny on what?
The body does not exist in isolation. there is a constant input of water and electrolytes into the system. while osmoregulation is achieved across membranes within the body, excess electrolytes and wastes are transported to the kidneys and excreted, helping to maintain this?
If a sperm fertilizes an egg of a seed plant, the zygote grows into what?
Metabolism produces waste energy in the form of heat, which helps what type of animal conserve and maintain heat at a relatively constant body temperature?
Electromagnets can be turned on or off and their strength can be changed by controlling what?
In which part of a bird stomach is food stored, soaked and mechanically ground?
Physical science can be defined as the study of matter and what?
What is the term for animals that defend their area?
What is the main reason for weather change?
Most lipids in your diet should be what type, found mainly in plant sources and also in fish?
Crude oil is a mixture of different types of what?
What is the representative particle in pure metals?
What takes place in the organelle known as the chloroplast, which distinguishes animal from plant cells?
Organic and biochemical equations show the initial and final products of the equation, respectively known as the reactants and what else?
What is used during every step of oil production, from exploration to distribution?
When do the eggs in a female's ovaries start to mature?
Drilling wells into hot rocks to release hot water or steam is an example of what kind of power plant?
What is the state of matter that resembles a gas but has certain properties that a gas does not have called?
What enthalpy change is observed in an exothermic reaction?
What does hypoxic mean?
Who has proposed that cigarette advertising in all media be banned entirely?
What is the reaction called when an acid and a base react?
What is the term for when clumped solids sink to the bottom of the water?
A wildfire clears a forest of vegetation and animal life, returning their nutrients to the ground leaving a foundation for rapid recolonization. what is this a classic example of?
What system of the body can specifically protect you from pathogens and other things that might make you ill?
During glycolysis, each glucose molecule is broken down into two molecules of what compound?
The single circular dna chromosome of bacteria is not enclosed in what, but instead occupies a specific location called the nucleoid within the cell?
Plaque is surgically removed from the walls of a vessel in which surgery?
Where does most of the earth's energy come from?
What is the primary energy source for cells?
What is a simple sugar such as fructose or glucose?
Gram-negative bacteria have a cell wall made of peptidoglycan, whereas gram-positive bacteria have a cell wall made of what?
What term is used to describe muscle fibers that allows muscles to contract?
What are the main organs for breathing in a mammal?
What class of animals have four limbs and produce amniotic eggs?
No chemical process on the planet can match the output of what process?
Which disease afflicts children who don't get enough calcium during their bone formation stage?
What kind of reactions between an acid and a base yield a salt and water?
What human bodily function does cellulose help with?
What are large vesicles derived from the endoplasmic reticulum and golgi apparatus?
The burning of charcoal is what type of reaction?
What is responsible for the physical changes of puberty?
Unlike prokaryotes, eukaryotes have what?
An electron is accelerated from rest through a potential difference of what?
What is the most commonly used source of energy in the world?
Silk and cotton are examples of what type of fibers?
Tuna have been shown to contain high levels of what metal?
What does the esophagus produce for lubrication?
What type of amplitudes and wavelengths avoid detection in deep water?
What is the smallest main part of the brain?
Adding the number of protons plus the number of neutrons in an atom, decides it's approximate mass, what is another word for this value?
Why do people build dams and levees?
What runs through the penis and opens to the outside at the tip of the penis?
What is the chemical name of table sugar?
What enzyme is found in the small intestine catalyzes the hydrolysis of lactose?
While smooth muscle tissue can regenerate from stem cells called pericytes, dead cardiac muscle tissue is replaced by what type of tissue?
What natural process allows water to return again to the earth’s surface?
What is a spectrometer able to produce from starlight?
Without what food chain component, organic wastes and dead organisms would pile up everywhere, and their nutrients would no longer be recycled?
What are made on ribosomes in the cytoplasm?
How do you test a hypothesis?
What kind of power plant uses energy to heat water that becomes steam and spins turbines?
What is defined as the product of a force times the distance over which the force acts?
Visible light has what that can be detected by the human eye?
Chemical elements and water are recycled through what cycle?
The anterior muscles of the neck facilitate swallowing and what else?
How many directions can ions flow along the axon?
Ionic, covalent, and hydrogen are three important types of what type of interaction between different types of atoms?
In classical physics, momentum is a simple product of mass and this?
What compounds contain only carbon and hydrogen?
Synthetic and natural rubber, styrofoam and plastic are examples of organic what?
Some viruses carry a few viral enzyme molecules within their what?
Dietary proteins are broken down into what components when food is digested?
What kind of plants do not need adaptations for absorbing, transporting, and conserving water?
Organisms cannot live alone, needing other organisms to survive; what is this relationship called?
What force pulls bodies with mass together?
If a fixed amount of gas maintains a perfectly inversely proportional relationship between volume and pressure, then what else must be constant about the gas?
What conveys signals received by the eye to the brain?
When cardiac muscle contracts, the heart does what?
Do placental mammals give birth to relatively small or large fetuses?
What is the largest class of elements?
Liquid hcl can be used to do what to the ph of a swimming pool?
The three greatest proximate threats to biodiversity are habitat loss, overharvesting, and introduction of what?
The sun’s energy is converted to chemical energy by a what?
What are antacids comprised of?
Where can neurohormones act within the body?
What are composed of a phosphate group, a sugar, and one of five different nitrogenous bases.
Scientists measure the gases that escape from a volcano to predict what?
What molecule is made of two hydrogen atoms and one oxygen atom?
What occurs when muscle fibers get shorter?
The nitrogen cycle includes air, soil, and what?
As the organism grows more sophisticated, what happens to the process of gene regulation?
Rh antibodies can prove dangerous if they cross what barrier in pregnancy?
Galaxies can be spiral, elliptical, or which other type?
What often involves the loss of hydrogen, the gain of oxygen, or the loss of electrons?
Luster, malleability, ductility, and conductivity are all properties of which kind of material?
Anosmia, the loss of what sense, is often the result of the olfactory nerve being severed?
Which planet is the kuiper belt closest to?
Does warm air sit above or below cooler air in the troposphere?
What is the name for the stratospheric gas layer that protects living things from uv radiation?
All atoms have equal numbers of what two particles?
What is the only planet that rotates clockwise as viewed from its north pole?
Most radioactive emissions that people are exposed to are on the order of a few dozen what?
What decay produces helium nuclei?
Instead of wood, what do some fireplaces use?
What is the sum of all biochemical reactions in cells called?
What process is magnesium important to?
What type of shots do people with allergy get?
Where do polychaete worms live?
What kind of material that might otherwise go to a landfill can serve as the source of biomass power?
What was the appendix used for in the past but is no longer needed for?
Dermal, vascular, and ground tissue make up what part of a plant, which bears the leaves, flowers and fruits?
What term is used to describe the conditions in the sky on any particular day?
What does the human body produce to help digest food?
What is a coil of wire with electric current flowing through it called?
What type of young do scorpions produce?
The chloroplast integrates the two stages of what process?
What is the name for the amount of water vapor in the air?
What is the body system that digests food mechanically and chemically and absorbs nutrients?
What is measured with a personal dosimeter?
Which plants sometimes colonize areas by disrupting interactions between native organisms?
What are electromagnetic waves with the longest wavelengths called?
Resonance has been used in what kind of human-made recreational objects since prehistoric times?
What is the strength of an earthquake called?
What organs need constant pressure to filter the blood?
After an infection has been brought under control and most cytotoxic t cells die off, a few remain as what?
How do lancelets reproduce?
What is the storage form of glucose in humans and other vertebrates?
What two factors influence the pressure of fluids?
Although it is the easiest to observe, what property is not ideal as a sole way to identify minerals?
Where are bile acids, needed to emulsify lipids, stored in the body?
What type of molecule is first broken down in cellular respiration?
The rate at which the body uses food energy to sustain life and to do different activities is called the what?
How many valence electrons does carbon have?
What word describes a molecule that repels polar water?
Which pollution can cause lung cancer and can also make asthma and other diseases worse?
Counterweights and diagonal steel beams are used in buildings to hold down what?
The major component of what cellular structures is the phospholipid bilayer?
The cytoskeleton crisscrosses the cytoplasm, this gives what to the cell?
Initiation, elongation, and termination are the three steps of what?
What do we call the most widely accepted cosmological explanation of how the universe formed?
Angiosperms possess reproductive structures that attract animals that perform what role?
What kind of tissue consists of trabeculae and forms the inner layer of all bones?
What is the most important factor in determining the type of soil that forms in a particular area?
Energy constantly changes back and forth between kinetic and what type of energy?
The tendency of an object to resist a change in its motion is called what?
When land used for mining or other purposes is restored to its natural state, what do you call the process, which is often mandated by law?
There are how many visual clues to indicate a chemical reaction?
Genetic traits are characteristics encoded in what?
In 1802, charles and gay-lussac both proposed that for a fixed amount of gas at a constant pressure, what is directly proportional to its absolute temperature?
What material is transported in a process called longshore drift?
What has has revolutionized biological and biomedical research and applications?
Electrons are organized into shells and subshells about the nucleus of this?
What is the double-membrane structure that constitutes the outermost portion of the nucleus?
Each daughter cell represents one outcome of all possible combinations of maternal and paternal what?
What is the science of classifying the many organisms on earth called?
Platelets play a role in what cascade of reactions that converts plasma fibrinogen to fibrin?
What force includes forces of attraction and repulsion?
How many atoms of oxygen does silicon dioxide contain?
A transformer has two coils, electrically insulated from each other. one coil is called the primary coil and the other is called the what?
What state of matter is characterized by tiny particles separated by large distances, which do not experience any force of attraction or repulsion with each other?
Where are unsaturated fatty acids commonly found?
Why is gingko biloba planted in public spaces?
What term means a representation of an object, system, or process?
What makes metals shiny?
What are materials that have high resistance to electric current called?
Which system in your body stores urine and is controlled by the nervous system?
Which type of isomers generally have lower boiling and melting points than straight-chain isomers?
Which temperature scale is commonly used in science?
What is required for both the synthesis and breakdown of molecules?
Parasites usually harm their hosts (or they wouldn't be parasites), but what do they usually stop short of doing?
What basic structures are the site of all the life functions of an organism?
From where have the earliest ocean plants thought to have evolved?
The liver has three main components: hepatocytes, bile canaliculi, and this?
What bone is is one of a pair that together form the upper jaw, much of the hard palate, the medial floor of the orbit, and the lateral base of the nose?
When a rock is altered by heat from a nearby magma, what occurs?
Which is one of the most complicated parts of gene regulation in eukaryotic cells?
How is thermal energy transferred in every-day, real life situations, such as holding a warm cup?
What consists of all the biotic and abiotic factors in an area and their interactions?
What is the theory scientists use to explain the matter in the universe and how it's held together?
In what group of animals several forms of asexual reproduction are found?
After the amino acid molecule has been bound to its what, protein synthesis can take place?
The conversion of food that is consumed to nutrients involves what two major processes:
What is the unsorted pile of material dropped by glaciers called?
Each proton has how many units of positive charge?
Because charges must have an unbroken path to follow, electric current cannot flow through a material unless it forms what?
In living systems, diffusion of substances into and out of cells is mediated by the what membrane?
Ancient greeks mistook what simple sedentary animals for plants?
What trimester is associated with rapid fetal growth?
What are all scientific explanations and interpretations based on?
What is the process in which an atom becomes an ion known as?
What are two examples of lipids?
What can radioactive strontium replace in the human body making it dangerous?
Silicon with an element that gives it extra electrons is which type of semiconductor?
Cold sores, influenza, and the common cold are all?
What helps to propel sponge larvae through the water?
The majority of cells in blood are erythrocytes or?
Which gases trap heat in the atmosphere?
The arrangement of what plant structures can be classified as either alternate, spiral, or opposite?
Acceleration is defined as the change in what over time?
Some protists absorb nutrients from decaying matter like a what?
What noble gas follows hydrogen on the periodic table?
What is the order and family of a meat-eating cat like a tiger?
What is required between cytoskeleton and motor proteins for cell motility?
Underground rock in a molten state is called?
What takes over the synthesis and secretion of progesterone throughout pregnancy as the corpus luteum degenerates?
Distillation is an effective method to separate mixtures comprised of two or more what?
Aids is an infectious disease of which system?
Where are the olfactory organs of snails located?
What is the term for a pure substance that possesses unique properties and cannot be broken down into other substances?
What is the term for a cross in which the inheritance of two characteristics are tracked at the same time?
Through what system of the body do hormones generally travel?
What sort of digestion do animals engage in?
What is the most abundant biochemical compound?
When organisms penetrate a rock, they accelerate breakdown by chemical means and what other means?
What determines velocity?
What term is used to describe a simple diagram that shows one way energy flows through an ecosystem?
How can nuclear fusion in stars be simulated?
What type of tissue transmits nerve impulses throughout the body?
Animals produce most of what chemicals, which are needed to synthesize the fatty acids they need?
How do parathyroid hormones react as a body ages?
What describe the fraction or percentage of a mixture that is made up of a particular substance.
What are the most numerous organisms in the world?
What helps push the fetus from the uterus during birth?
Telescopes use which kind of lenses to enlarge images?
How does uric acid react to water?
Which kingdom are mosses and trees included in?
What is the developing human organism referred to as from the end of the eighth week until birth?
In an acidic medium, add which ions to balance?
Which type of plankton make food via photosynthesis?
What is capable of altering the rate of time passing?
Damages and deaths are directly affected by what in an earthquake?
What is the the basic si unit for mass?
What are objects that are launched into the air called?
What are hydrocarbons with double bonds called?
What is the liquid component in blood?
Functional groups are groups of atoms that occur within molecules and confer specific chemical properties to those molecules. they are found along the “carbon backbone” of what?
Predators can replace what tool in agriculture.
What is a mixture of eroded rock, minerals, partly decomposed organic matter, and other materials called?
All cells need what for energy?
In an experiment, what is the affected variable called?
Does the stream-lined body featured on most fish increase or decrease water resistance?
What is the role of the sodium ion in the neutralization reaction of sodium flouride?
What is the name of the line used in topographic maps that shows different elevations?
Sporangia produce spores that develop into tiny, heart-shaped what?
A long chain of mountains that rises up high above the deep seafloor is called?
When bacteria are destroyed by leukocytes, what are released into the blood?
Hierarchical classification can reflect the branching patterns of phylogenetic?
Unstable isotopes give off particles and energy as what?
What structure is an organelle that contains enzymes that break down and digest unneeded cellular components?
What is the unit used to measure voltage?
What type of gases are used for balloons, light bulbs and lighted signs?
Some living things on the ocean floor are sources of what human necessity?
Many protists form what kind of beneficial association with other species?
When two of these meet, the result is often a storm?
What causes food to move through the esophagus?
What do we call the solid form of hydrocarbons?
What is needed to create muscles, regulate chemical reactions, and transport oxygen?
What does the vertebral column , or backbone, protect?
X rays and what other type of electromagnetic wave has the shortest wavelengths and the highest frequencies?
The anterior pituitary produces seven different what, each with a special function?
What is the term for the measure of the average kinetic energy of the particles in matter?
Pepsin and trypsin are examples of enzymes involved in what bodily process?
What is the only metalloid in group 13?
How is a mammal developed if not inside of a placenta or a pouch?
Slime molds have several morphological similarities to fungi, including spore-generation, that are thought to be the result of convergent what?
What do willow trees produce to kill bacteria?
The ph scale is a scale used to express the concentration of hydrogen ions in solution. a neutral solution, neither acidic nor basic, has a ph of what?
What is the term for something left behind by once-living organisms?
What connects the peripheral nervous system to the central nervous system?
In which supergroup are red algae and green algae included?
If a machine only changes the direction of a force without changing the ratio of the output/input forces, then what is its associated mechanical advantage?
What is an advantage of brightly colored fruits?
What is the apt term for the very slow movement of rock and soil down a hillside?
The zeros at the end of a number are known as what?
Does water get colder or warmer the deeper you go?
Many transition metals and their compounds are used as what?
What do willow trees produce to kill bacteria?
What do decomposers release once they have broken down the dead organisms?
Often determining the strength or intensity of a wave, this term is the distance from the equilibrium point of motion to either its lowest or highest point?
Which type of muscle fiber can sustain long contractions?
We would genetically be all the same if genes did not have different what?
Thylakoid membranes contain molecules of what green pigment used in photosynthesis?
What is the name for a way of learning that involves reward or punishment?
What scale measures the total energy released by an earthquake?
All enzymes have an optimal temperature and what?
When do homologous chromosomes form pairs?
What forms when the metal sodium gives up an electron to the nonmetal chlorine?
What type of gas is produced by alcoholic fermentation of the glucose in corn or other plants?
What type of transport is vesicle transport considered to be?
Strong bands of dense, regular connective tissue that connect muscles to bones are called what?
Homes and transportation use what percent of all energy in the u.s.?
What falls roughly in the middle of the electromagnetic spectrum, having shorter wavelengths and higher frequencies than microwaves, but not as short and high as x rays?
What are models good for?
Explanations of some aspect of the natural world based on repeated observations are termed what?
What is found in abundance in the polar ice caps and under the surface of mars?
What do nerve impulses travel along?
Cyanobacteria are bluish green in color because they contain what?
How many miles is the distance between the earth and sun?
What is the dominant form of plant life in most terrestrial ecosystems, comprising about 90 percent of all plant species?
What is the largest mammal on earth?
What are elements that generally do not conduct electricity?
Superconductors expel a magnetic field from their interior. what is this phenomenon known as?
Continually increasing the pressure on the liquid will eventually cause the substance to do what?
Hypersensitivity may refer to a maladaptive response of what system toward a harmless foreign substance?
Similarity that results from common ancestry is known as what?
We all start as a single cell and soon grow into what?
Which acid contains only one ionizable hydrogen?
The epidermis is made of which closely packed cells?
What is a double membrane of the nucleus that encloses the genetic material?
What effect does changing temperature have on a system at equilibrium?
What type of cancer can the use of tanning beds lead to?
Organisms tend to be larger in size at higher what levels?
A major step in animal evolution was the evolution of what rigid rod that runs the length of the body?
What is the name of the process that refers to the balance or equilibrium within the cell or a body?
What is the clear, protective covering on the outside of the eye?
Deeper layers of rock must be older than layers closer to the surface, this is the law of what?
Dentists occasionally use metallic mixtures called amalgams for what?
Which infection turns ant's abdomen red and fruit-like and an easy prey for birds?
What do mitochondrions have an inner and outer version of?
Resistance to pesticides in a population of insects is an example of what?
What expresses the mass of substance in terms of the volume occupied by the substance?
What organ is the hypothalamus a part of?
Urea, ammonia and uric acid are types of what waste, excreted in different forms by different species?
Besides tasting food, what organ is necessary for mastication, deglutition (swallowing), and speech?
What is transmitted by moving electrons in an electric current?
What happens if a molecule forms strong bonds to the catalyst?
In general, kinetic energy is the form of energy powering any type of matter in motion, while the energy of position is called what?
What event occurs between the two solstices?
Alveoli can be found in which organ in the human body?
About one-fourth of the blood pumped with each heartbeat enters arteries serving what organs of digestion?
The paired bones of the skull are the palatine, zygomatic, nasal, lacrimal, inferior nasal conchae bones, and what else?
Each muscle fiber contains hundreds of organelles called what?
The common cold and flu are examples of human diseases caused by what tiny particles?
What are the two layers of the skin?
Light can be used to eject what from a solid material?
What element is a biochemical compound based on?
The amniotic sac is attached to what?
Which type of respiration helps organisms generate quick bursts of speed, as opposed to long steady movement?
When matter reacts, there can be what that comes from nowhere and is unaccounted for?
What is located at about 80 degrees north latitude?
What is a byproduct from the combustion of fossil fuels like coal and gasoline?
What can damage animal tissues?
Along with other functions, what do carbohydrates, proteins, and lipids provide for the body?
What system of the body uses amylase and pepsin in its functioning?
What are genes located on the sex chromosomes called?
The posterior pituitary releases which hormone, which stimulates uterine contractions during childbirth?
What consists mainly of parenchymal cells with chloroplasts?
What is the movement of animals from one place to another?
Twin studies have been instrumental in demonstrating what type of component in autism?
What is a measure of the size of sound waves?
Covalent compounds form individual molecules rather than what?
Winds are caused by differences in what?
What is generated when a heart ventricle contracts?
What area beneath the earth's surface do magma collects?
What develop inside chambers called ovaries, which originate within flowers and mature into fruits?
What kind of lakes form when volcanic eruptions create holes that fill with water?
The size of the solute particles determines the rate of what?
The vas deferens and ejaculatory ducts are part of what system?
What part of an egg contains the genetic material ?
Bees and other wild animals perform what function on flowering plants, making them vital for crop reproduction?
What does the sebaceous gland secrete which waterproofs the skin and hair?
What water is about 3.5% salt?
Catabolic and anabolic hormones in the body help regulate these?
Food chains and what describe the transfer of energy within an ecosystem, from one organism to another?
The type of eruption a volcano has depends on the type of what in its chamber?
What organ has four ventricles, all of which developed from the original hollow space within the neural tube?
The cell theory and the theory of evolution by natural selection are basic to all fields in what branch of science?
How many types of antigens can an antibody match?
What do drugs that alleviate symptoms of schizophrenia block?
What destroys the filtered pathogens?
A device that produces a very focused beam of visible light of just one wavelength and color is called?
The second step in eukaryotic cell division is division of which part of the cell?
Approximately how many galaxies are there in the universe?
What theory of evolution is charles darwin most known for?
What organ system is different in men and women?
Why do effusive eruptions rarely kill anyone?
What are hot fragments of rock called?
Unevenness or asymmetry in the focus of the eye describes what visual defect?
The addition of electron gives the halide ions the same electron configuration as what gas?
Partially decayed remains of plants and animals form the organic portion of what?
Where is the most significant connection between the cerebellum and the rest of the brain?
What do you call the daily changes in the level of ocean water?
What are the specialized building blocks of your body?
What do plants make to store extra glucose?
Sand dunes migrate when sand is blown up a slope and this force pulls it down the other side?
Inside each lymph node is a honeycomb of connective tissue with spaces filled by what?
What "apparatus" is responsible for sorting, modifying, and shipping off the products that come from the rough endoplasmic reticulum?
When two haploid gametes unite during fertilization they form what?
What kind of phenotype results in a case of incomplete dominance?
Chloroplasts, chromoplasts, and leucoplasts are all plastids, organelles found in what kind of cells?
What is the attraction of a particular atom for the electrons of a covalent bond called?
How many continents do birds breed on?
Dna consists of how many long chains of nucleotides?
What is the transition from liquid to gas is called?
What is inside the plasma membrane of a prokaryotic cell?
When the helium is gone, the stars become what?
What is the change of state from a solid to a gas without passing through the liquid state?
What type of cells are gametes?
What is the touch response in plants called?
Humans have an estimated 20,000 to 22,000 of what units of heredity?
What is defined as the amount of force acting on a given area?
What system consists of glands that secrete hormones into the bloodstream?
Where are the oceans most polluted?
What organelles are known as the energy "powerhouses" of the cells?
What is the effect on pressure when the area of applied force is very concentrated?
What two elements primarily make up the sun?
Adipose is a connective tissue made up of cells called what?
Where are about 75% of the tar sands in the world located?
Does pressure increase or decrease when gas particles heat up?
What are the two most common vision problems?
What is the pair of bean-shaped organs that filters blood and produces urine?
Met, asn, trp, and gln connect together like beads on a necklace and are an example of what type of acids?
What is a carbon-based compound that is found in living things called?
What do you call a mirror shaped like the inside of a bowl?
Ions that contain fewer electrons than protons have a net positive charge and are called what?
What factors consist of parts of the environment that are or were alive, and their remains?
What is another name for a reasonable explanation for something that might be formed near the beginning of a scientific inquiry into a problem?
What is the logarithmic scale that measures the largest jolt of energy released by an earthquake called?
Polarization occurs between a charged and what other object?
Glucose, fructose, and other sugars that have six carbons are called what?
What is precipitation that flows over the surface of the land?
What is the method that is a plan for asking questions and testing possible answers called?
What branch of physics deals with the smallest units of elements and compounds?
What kinds of acids are proteins made out of?
Whisk ferns have yellow sporangia and no what?
Do tropical regions have very high or very low rates of immigration?
What type of experiment involves two identical experiments carried out side-by-side, with and without an independent variable?
How does the core of the sun radiate energy?
What is the concentration of gas molecules in the mesosphere?
What type of energy causes erosion at the shore?
Long distance runners try to maintain constant velocity with very little acceleration or deceleration to conserve what?
What is the smallest particle of an element that still has the element’s properties?
A biofilm is a colony of what that is stuck to a surface such as a rock or a host’s tissues?
The stem of a horsetail is characterized by the presence of joints, or nodes: hence the name arthrophyta, which means this?
What do power plants burn to generate electricity?
What organ lets us understand what we see, hear, or sense in other ways, and allows us to use language, learn, think, and remember?
What is the more common term for ethanoic acid, the active substance in vinegar?
What type of pollution results from the contaminants that enter a waterway or water body through a single site?
What are the "chemical messenger" molecules used by the endocrine system?
Many innovative farming methods can prevent what type of erosion, which is especially important in agriculture?
As the atoms approach one another, their electron clouds gradually begin to do what?
What force holds together both types of star clusters?
What are the rod-like structures made of short microtubules that play an important part in cellular division?
Vertebrates with four limbs are also called what?
What is the name of the disorder of the arteries in which cholesterol and other materials are deposited on the interior of the arterial wall?
What is defined as a close relationship between organisms of different species in which at least one of the organisms benefits?
What do you call the force identified by a north and south pole?
The voltage of a voltaic cell can be determined by the reduction potentials of what?
What type of fatty acids have bent chains?
All seed plants and a few seedless vascular plants are what?
The three segments of arthropods are the head, thorax and what?
A notochord has in common with what vertbrate structure?
Most members of what mammalian order possess opposable thumbs?
What refers to a group of individual organisms of the same species that live closely together?
The rise in greenhouse gases has what effect on the temperature of earth?
What two types of atoms bond to form sulfate minerals?
Where does groundwater primarily come from?
What determines sex in animals?
The joints of the carpal bones in the wrist are examples of what type of joints?
If a unit is named after a person it needs to be?
What is the name for the inner lining of the uterus?
What is it called when currents keep reversing direction?
What is the name given to anything that has mass and takes up space?
What is the upper most level of earth's layers called?
What are secreted into the gi tract by organs of the gi tract or from a nearby gland named the pancreas?
In what organ does pepsin help break down proteins?
What begins when a neuron receives a chemical stimulus?
Pink snapdragons are an example of what?
Air quality is a measure of what in the air?
What do solar cells convert the energy in sunlight into?
Both endotherms and ectotherms control what through behavioral responses to changes in the environment?
What occurs when the bronchioles swell and the muscles around the bronchioles contract?
What giant planet is far away from and much less dense than earth?
Bacteria, viruses, fungi, and protozoa are examples of what, the term for a disease-causing microorganism?
Newton’s third law of motion describes what property of forces that means balance?
Translation is the second part of the central dogma of what?
What helps us see rainbows in the sky?
How the individuals in a population are spread throughout their habitat is referred to as what?
The passenger pigeon, the dodo bird, and the woolly mammoth represent individual cases of what fate?
Both fats and oils are made up of long chains of carbon atoms that are bonded together. what are these chains called?
What adds phosphate groups to receptor proteins at the surface of the cell?
Cold fronts in winter may bring what type of storm?
What is added to alcohol and used as an antiseptic?
Excretion of ions occurs mainly through what organ?
Acids can also react with metals, and when they do they produce what?
Convection is the transfer of what type of energy by particles moving through a fluid?
Foresters commonly inoculate pine seedlings with a type of what to promote growth?
What are animal fats and oils such as olive and vegetable oil classified as?
What type of alloys are used in musical instruments?
Osteoclasts and osteoblasts play key roles in repair of what?
What is the general shape of centrioles?
Why does water infiltrate the ground?
What is the upward force exerted by fluids when any object, such as a boat, is placed in it?
What do dendrites receive signals from?
What is the term for the exchange of genetic material between non-sister chromatids of homologous chromosomes?
What must be overcome to change the motion of an object?
Which action of the stomach helps chemical digestion by gastric juice?
What two lenses comprise a compound microscope?
Physical and chemical differences help ecologists distinguish between freshwater and marine types of what?
What are the organic compounds that the body needs in small amounts to function properly; humans need 13 different ones?
To undo the tarnish on copper pennies, you can place them in what liquid?
What kind of bonding between alcohol molecules means that more energy is required to convert the liquid to vapor, and boiling points are therefore high?
During summer in the northern hemisphere, the north pole is tilted toward what?
Also called lodestone, the mineral magnetite is the most powerful what?
How many valves are in the heart?
Momentum is directly related to both mass and?
Bones are made up of different types of what?
What do metals typically lose to achieve stability?
What happens when a sperm and an egg cell combine?
What is the ability to change or move matter?
How many weeks are in the life cycle of ladybugs
What is the respiratory pigment of almost every vertebrate?
Objects moving at different speeds, in different directions have different what?
What type of compounds make up the cells and tissues of organisms?
Meiosis and what process are both preceded by one round of dna replication; however, they differ in producing haploid or diploid daughter cells?
In their pure form, all elements have an oxidation number of what?
What is a close relationship between two species in which at least one species benefits called?
Multiple sclerosis, huntington’s disease, parkinson’s disease, and alzheimer’s disease are example of diseases of which body system?
What includes the living organisms in an area and the non-living aspects of the environment?
Bacteria may become untreatable if they develop what in response to multiple antibiotics?
What grows through blue cheese that gives it the distinctive appearance and flavor?
The two main types of phagocytic cells in the mammalian body are neutrophils and what other?
What is aggravated by practices such as logging, mining, construction, and paving surfaces?
What type of hydrocarbon is coal?
What chemicals in the liver support glucose homeostasis?
When resources become limiting, populations follow a logistic growth curve in which the size will level off at a point called what?
Along with climate, this also influences the type of vegetation that can grow in the region?
What is defined as anything that takes up space and has mass?
What is the name of the simplest carbon molecule?
Hyperparathyroidism results from an overproduction of what?
What is formed when different gases are confined to the same container?
What property of fluids causes something to stay on or near the surface of water?
What are the tiny sacs in the lungs where gas exchange takes place?
What is the stage between a zygote and polyp?
What is the term for  a particle outside the nucleus of an atom that has a negative electric charge?
Scientists goal is develop nuclear fusion power plants, where the energy from fusion of hydrogen nuclei can be converted to what?
In which state of matter are particles completely separate from one another?
Van der waals forces are weak interactions between molecules that involve what?
What part of the body does emphysema affect?
What number is the sum of the numbers of protons and neutrons present in the nucleus of an atom?
What kind of tool, often based on mathematical equations or computer simulations, helps us understand complex systems?
An ecosystem consists of all the living things and what?
Mesophyll consists mainly of parenchyma cells specialized for what?
Antibiotic drugs are usually effective in treating what kind of infections?
What is earth’s geographic north pole also called?
What are the nonliving aspects of the environment called?
Chemical reactions follow the laws of what?
What do you call a mixture of two or more substances in which dissolved particles are distributed evenly throughout?
What is the water that falls from the sky called?
What returns blood from capillaries to an atrium?
Hemolymph bathes organs directly in arthropods and most molluscs, due to an open type of what system?
According to the table, aluminum has an atomic number of 13. therefore, every aluminum atom has 13 protons in its what?
Anemia, leukemia, hemophilia, and sickle-cell disease are examples of conditions that primarily affect what?
What kind of variation does a rate measure?
What is the name of the process that changes some chemical substances into others?
What is the term for the gases that surround a planet?
Pressure and vibration are examples of what type of stimuli?
In the chest, what divides as it enters the lungs to form the right and left bronchi?
When does an oocyte complete meiosis?
The electroplating process transfers metal from the anode to which part of the cell?
Compression, tension and shear refer to what type of force that can cause rock to change?
Unlike the biological species concept, the ecological species concept can accommodate asexual as well as ________ species.
A basic function of cells includes obtaining what from glucose?
What is the term for a test to see if a scientific explanation is right or wrong?
When a solvent with a gas dissolved in it is heated, the kinetic energy of both the solvent and solute _________?
How does the bacteria look when seen with the naked eye?
What is a device used to measure temperature changes during chemical processes called?
Ebola is an example of a disease spread by what kind of infectious agent?
The tiny hair present on mucus membranes is known as?
What elements do lipids primarily consist of?
Polychaetes make up a large and diverse group. which category do the majority of these worms fall into?
What is the main makeup of the cell membrane?
When a host attacks a parasitic bacteria, the bacteria release what to surround the cell wall?
Solutions can also become supersaturated , where the amount of solute dissolved exceeds what?
What is the biggest risk associated with using nuclear energy?
What property is the result of the force of gravity being opposed by the normal force?
What are the cliffs called which are created when waves erode a rocky shoreline, leaving a vertical wall of exposed rock layers?
When boron10 absorbs a neutron, what does it emit?
What is the most common life form in the ocean?
What circulates with the blood or hemolymph and are often contained within specialized cells
What are the two possible reduction products for brf3?
Normal blood is comprised of nearly half erythrocytes, which is another word for what cells?
What type of intense storm is a system of winds that rotate around a low pressure center, resulting in swirling air that rises and cools to create clouds and precipitation?
Blood flows into the kidney through which artery?
Growth and development in humans is most rapid during what two stages?
What are used to write nuclear equations for radioactive decay?
The pull of gravity is expressed as a force of what?
What type of physics explains the behavior of visible light and electromagnetic waves?
The duodenum has a major role in regulating what digestive organ and its emptying?
What are misfolded versions of normal brain proteins?
By impacting plant species and the animals they support, destruction of habitat threatens what event?
What division of the nervous system controls involuntary activities that are not emergencies, such as the digestive organs breaking down food?
What occurs when a cold air mass runs into a warm air mass?
What are the tiny sacs in the lungs where gas exchange takes place?
What is the term for plants that lack vascular tissues, roots, leaves, seeds, and flowers?
Why are continents unable to be pushed down into the mantle by plate boundaries?
What is it called when a new species arises without geographic separation?
In an exothermic reaction, what, specifically, is released?
What term describes diseases caused by abnormal cells in the body dividing uncontrollably?
What is the molecule, dipeptide formed together by?
Did the the open circulatory systems of molluscs and arthropods arise dependently or independently of each other?
What kind of weathering is abrasion?
What are composed of alternating positive and negative ions?
What is the term for a small organelle where proteins are made?
What occurs when the immune system attacks harmless substances that enter the body from the outside?
What is composed of very long strands of glucose monomers, is largely indigestible and comprises the cell walls of plants?
Where are the terrestrial planets located, in relation to the sun?
What are the insects that suck up the sap from plants?
The energy for an ecosystem can come from sunlight or _________?
Phagocytosis, pinocytosis, and receptor-mediated endocytosis are the three types of what?
What type of machines generally have lower efficiency but greater mechanical advantage?
What is the name of the layer above the mesosphere?
What layer of earth contains abundant oxygen, which can combine with other elements to create oxide minerals?
Animals that are endotherms or ectotherms are distinguished by the ability to maintain a constant what?
What form of energy is light?
What is a common chemical substance on planet earth?
Blood calcium levels are tightly regulated by the what system?
This bodily defense function attacks pathogens and includes inflammatory response and phagocytosis?
Lodgepole cones remain closed until exposed to what?
What is the change of state from a gas to a liquid?
The steropodon may have been an ancestor of which animal?
Closely associated with "work", what is characterized by its many forms and the fact that it is conserved?
What is the time it takes for radioactive substance to decay?
What type of biomes are found in the salt water of the ocean?
What is formed when an enzyme binds its substrate?
What type of rock is a sandstone?
Which acids provide the molecular blueprints for all proteins produced in living systems?
Cephalopods have three hearts that pump blood of what color?
Influenza is a type of what, where glycoproteins attach to a host epithelial cell?
What is the smallest aromatic hydrocarbon?
A hypothesis is scientific only if it can be tested by what?
Aging occurs as cells lose their ability to do what?
The tyndall effect refers to the scattering of what by colloidal particles?
Acids are associated with a low number on which scale?
Said to go hand-in-hand with science, what evolves as new materials, designs, and processes are invented?
What are the poles labeled?
What is considered to be the "fundamental unit" of life?
What two states of matter are included in the category "fluids"?
When matter changes into an entirely different substance with different chemical properties, what has occurred?
Phospholipids are unable to mix with what?
What are molecules that the immune system recognize as foreign to the body?
The end result of diffusion is an equal concentration, or equilibrium , of molecules on both sides of what?
What paired organs that are part of the urinary system play the prime role in excretion?
The fungus benefits from the constant supply of food produced by what?
Gases can be classifed as real or what?
What is a mutation?
What are biological catalysts that speeds up biochemical reactions?
What type of reaction is a transfer of a proton from one molecule or ion to another?
What part of the plant, in general, is responsible for transport and storage of water and minerals?
One gram of carbohydrates provides how many calories of energy?
Mushrooms and other fungi obtain energy from what?
How are protozoa that cause giardiasis spread?
What can prevent the passage of molecules and ions between cells, such as in the blood-brain barrier?
Give an example of air pollution while painting indoors.
What plays a variety of important roles in biochemical systems?
What type of plants grow on other plants?
What provides a protective covering for the body and helps maintain homeostasis?
Uranium is an important part of the process used to harness which type of power?
Budding and fission in annelids are examples of what type of reproduction?
What is the process by which plants make their own food?
In what part of the carbon cycle does carbon move between living things and the air?
Herbivores and the bacteria that live in their intestines demonstrate a two-way beneficial relationship called what?
What joins within each testis to form the epididymis?
How many layers of phospholipids does the cell membrane contain?
What process within cells makes sure that every gamete receives a copy of every chromosome?
Do amphibians and reptiles maintain a constant body temperature?
Most vascular plants are seed plants, also known as?
Centrifuges use what to perform their task?
What are the two unique features of mollusks?
Name the two types of water turtles live in.
What structures are located on roof of the nasopharynx and on each side of the pharynx?
What colorful arc-shaped atmospheric phenomena are produced by a combination of refraction and reflection?
Rabies transmission occurs when saliva from an infected mammal enters a wound. the virus travels through neurons in the peripheral nervous system to the central nervous system where it impairs this?
Newton realized that the nature of gravity on earth that pulls an apple to the ground could explain the motion of these?
Where do most of the steps of cellular respiration take place?
Which metal is not solid at room temperature?
Induced mutations are caused by environmental factors. what term is used to describe a mutation that has no environmental cause?
What part of the cell does cellular respiration occur?
How is the chance of survival affected when animals lack parental care?
Elements with magic numbers of what tend to have more stable isotopes?
What is the term for the steep sloped side of a sand dune?
Pulleys are generally used to do what with objects?
What term describes how close estimates are to one another?
What are membrane-bound organelles that can have secretory, excretory, and storage functions?
The structural classification of joints divides them into bony, fibrous, cartilaginous, and synovial joints. the bones of fibrous joints are held together by fibrous connective tissue; the three types of fibrous joints are sutures, syndesomes, and what?
A catalyst can increase the rate of what, in general?
Which crust lies deep inside the ocean?
What is the most significant cause of respiratory disease as well as cardiovascular disease and cancer?
What type of light can you feel as heat but not see and has the longest wavelengths and lowest frequencies?
Ionic, molecular, covalent, and metallic are major types of what state of matter?
What forces keep the moon orbiting the earth?
Snow and ice may also undergo which process where there is intense sunlight, very cold temperatures, and dry winds?
Electromagnets can be controlled by controlling what type of current?
The rate of evolution is influenced by the rate of changes to what?
What do you call a device that produces a very focused beam of visible light of just one wavelength and color?
Bubbles in bread dough are created by what gas produced during alcoholic fermentation?
What is the capacity to cause change?
Ocean currents transfer heat from the equator towards what locations?
In sexual reproduction, two of what unite to produce an offspring?
What are the ends of long bones called?
Convection is the transfer of thermal energy by particles moving through what?
What happens when waves reach the shore?
What is an involuntary muscle contraction that moves rapidly along an organ like a wave called?
What is the purpose of water molds in fresh water environments?
What corrosive substances capable of dissolving many metals can cause contamination if spilled?
What is always conserved in chemical reactions?
A polyatomic ion is an ion composed of more than one what?
Mutualism is an interaction between individuals of two different species that has what effect on both of them?
What are the structural and functional units of the nervous system, which transmit nerve impulses to other cells?
If hot water becomes trapped, pressure may build up. when the water breaks free, it creates what?
What electrical force is responsible for fission?
Which law states that a pair of alleles is separated, or segregated, during the formation of gametes?
Sounds or pictures can be encoded in pulses of what, which are then sent through an optical fiber?
What substance are physical objects are made of?
Why do mangrove trees rise high above the water? which characteristic help them to do so?
What fertilizes an egg during sexual reproduction?
How does the fungus benefit from the photosynthesizer?
What is the name for unsaturated hydrocarbons that contain at least one double bond?
What is the term for  a loop in which a product feeds back to control its own production?
During what period on earth was coal formed?
What is the term for the visible part of the electromagnetic spectrum?
Which vertebrates were the first with four limbs?
How do plants support themselves above the ground to get light and oxygen?
What process starts with glucose and ends with two pyruvate molecules, a total of four atp molecules and two molecules of nadh?
What paired organs help regulate blood pressure through sodium ion and water retention and loss?
What is the age-related disorder that causes the gradual loss of bone density and strength?
What are microfilaments made out of?
Which bones are the large, curved bones that form the lateral and anterior aspects of the pelvis?
What bifurcates into the right and left bronchi in the lungs?
What is the spreading of white light into its full spectrum of wavelengths called?
What type of fertilization usually occurs in aquatic environments where both eggs and sperm are released into the water?
What is the energy of motion called?
Overharvesting is especially challenging for species with what type of habitat?
What is a representation of the valence electrons of an atom that uses dots around the symbol of the element?
Massive quanta, like electrons, also act like macroscopic particles—something we expect, because they are the smallest what?
The simplest example of what type of 'organ system' is the gastrovascular cavity found in organisms with only one opening for the process?
Photographs of the heat emitted by an object are called what?
Graphite is a form of elemental carbon what is another form?
If everything else stays the same in a system with a gas in it, and the gas gets warmer, what will happen to its pressure, generally?
What term means a failure, insufficiency, or delay in the response of the immune system, which may be acquired or inherited?
The mature pollen grain is composed of two cells: the pollen tube cell and which other cell?
The neck of the uterus, called the cervix, opens into what?
Where does the small intestine begin?
What type of shape does a pelvic inlet have?
Which stage of life is typically easier for learning multiple languages?
What is released from the body during ejaculation?
An organism's unique role in the ecosystem is called its what?
With the exception of water, what accounts for more mass than any other component of living organisms?
Atoms are combined, separated, or rearranged during what?
How many electrons does lithium have?
What is considered the center of the solar system?
What is the purpose of your body's first line of defense?
What functions as a framework that reinforces the shape of the leaf?
Like quarks, gluons may be confined to systems having a total color of what?
The ozone layer protects the earth from what?
What type of learning is based on past experience and reasoning?
What type of energy from a warm cola results in melting when it is transferred to the much colder ice?
What is the term for a connection between a neuron and its target cell?
What does the slope of a position-time graph represent?
What effect causes an object to appear to have a change of motion?
A carcinogen is nything in the environment that can cause what disease?
What does the blue color of the pulmonary arteries reflect?
The trade winds are nearest what?
Digestion of polysaccharides and disaccharides in the small intestine produces glucose and other?
What is the term for the smallest blood vessels?
In what type of body of water is most of the earth's water located?
What is one problem with current methods of aluminum production?
What makes the earth habitable for humans?
Which kind of flowers carry both male and female floral organs?
Historically, certain bacteriophages have also been used as cloning vectors for making what?
An allele is an alternative form of what structure?
All photosynthetic organisms contain a pigment called what?
Mammals may either be herbivores, omnivores or what else?
What phenomenon sometimes causes harmful alleles to become fixed?
How do you determine the atomic weight of an element?
Sodium and chlorine combine to make what?
What can bacterial stis be cured with?
What do bees do for flowering plants?
Where do streams often start?
Deletions remove one or more what from the dna?
For geneticists, the findings of what massive undertaking are significant in determining disease-causing alleles?
Does deforestation increase or decrease carbon dioxide levels around the world?
Which material used in oxyacetylene torches helps cut and weld metals?
Peroxisomes perform a couple of different functions, including lipid metabolism and chemical detoxification. in contrast to the digestive enzymes found in lysosomes, the enzymes within peroxisomes serve to transfer hydrogen atoms from various molecules to oxygen, producing what?
Ethylene, gibberellins, cytokinins, absciscic acid, and auxins are examples of what?
What are some uses of chlorine gas?
Designed to exchange materials, what spongy structure consists of membranes and blood vessels from both mother and embryo?
Even though tellurium does indeed have a greater average atomic mass than iodine, it is properly placed before iodine in the?
In a fullerene, what atoms are bonded to three other atoms in a soccer ball pattern?
What do you call the light particles that travel through the radiative zone?
What is a mixture of potassium nitrate, sulfur, and charcoal?
Opportunistic diseases are usually the direct cause of death of people with what disease?
What is the name of an uncharged particle whose weight is nearly equal to that of a proton?
The chemical symbol of which ion is written first in ionic compounds?
What is the opposite of rarefaction zones, where air molecules in waves are loosely packed?
What organs secrete hormones that help maintain homeostasis?
The nuclear envelope is a double-layered plasma membrane like the cell membrane, although without what?
What is another name for a radioactive isotope?
Dietary proteins are broken down into amino acids during what process?
Some gametophytes develop underground and form mycorrhizal associations with what?
What is the nervous tissue in the brain and in the rest of the nervous system made up of?
How do planets usually rotate to their orbital planes?
What are algae that live in colonies of hundreds of cells called?
Irrigation can waste a lot of what natural resource?
What drives puberty in male humans?
What is our largest source of energy?
Helium-3 is produced by beta decay of a certain what?
What do animals require to grow and develop?
What term is used to describe the process by which organisms give rise to offspring?
What are the nonliving matter that living things need called?
What term is used to express the measurement of how high land is above sea level?
A pulley is a simple machine that consists of a grooved wheel and?
What is another name for a broad explanation that is supported by a great deal of evidence?
Vinegar is a solution of which acid?
Which system does the large and small intestine belong to?
Particles of matter have the most definite shape in what material state?
What body system allows humans to move?
High decibel sounds can damage your?
What are the dark areas that appear on the sun called?
Fusion is another nuclear process that can be used to produce energy. in this process, smaller nuclei are combined to make larger nuclei, with an accompanying release of this?
One common form of mate choice, called assortative mating, is an individual’s preference to mate with partners who are what?
What powerful microscopes use a beam of subatomic particles instead of a beam of light?
Which scientist built the first telescope?
What type of bacteria change nitrogen gas from the atmosphere to nitrates in soil?
If no unbalanced force acts on an object the object remains at constant velocity or what?
What group of organisms was initially misclassified as plants because they also lack the ability to move, grow in soil, and have cell walls?
How does the epidermis renew its layer?
What is it called when crystals form from magma?
What type of symmetry does an octopus have?
What is necessary in a person who wishes to play wind instruments?
What is the scientific term for climates with the least moisture?
What's the term for a piece of an organism breaking off and forming a new organism?
What animal group can be found in every environment on earth, but primarily in the warm and moist tropics?
Most people can survive only a few days without what essential substance?
The vegetal pole refers to the concentration of what toward one pole of an egg?
What machines have scientist built to smash particles that are smaller than atoms into each other head-on?
What type of relationship occurs between organisms when one member benefits without affecting the other?
The type of what dictates how far it can penetrate into matter, such as lead or human flesh?
What role do proteins play in a biological reaction?
If you drive or take the bus to school or work, you are using a vehicle that probably burns gasoline, a material that burns fairly easily and provides energy to power the vehicle. recall that burning is a?
Muscles are composed mostly of cells called what?
Conifers are the most prevalent type of what plant group?
What element enters the body when an organism breathes?
Bonding in molecules with resonance forms is better described by which theory?
In places like the grand canyon, hard rocks that are resistant to weathering form what, while softer rocks that weather more easily form slopes?
When two skateboarders push against each other what happens?
The three layers of protective coverings of the spinal cord is called what?
A measure of how close a series of measurements are to one another is what?
Ionic compounds contain cations and anions rather than what?
Are giraffes herbivores or are they omnivores?
Respectively, which parts of the circulatory system carry blood from the heart toward capillaries, and return blood to the heart from capillaries?
It was not until the era of the ancient greeks that we have any record of how people tried to explain the chemical changes they observed and used. at that time, natural objects were thought to consist of only four basic elements: earth, air, fire, and this?
In science, what do we call a mathematical relationship that exists between observations under a given set of conditions?
What conducts nerve-like electrical signals that help integrate whole-plant function?
Found in many products, such as petri dishes, agar is made from mucilagnious material in this?
What is the process of capturing a substance or particle from outside the cell by engulfing it with the cell membrane?
What are the layered rocks that form when certain prokaryotes bind thin films of sediment together?
Where are the taste buds located in humans?
What describes the way light reflects off of the surface of the mineral?
What tissue consists of cells that form the body’s structure?
What forms at the boundary between two air masses?
Nitrogen wastes are produced by the breakdown of what during normal metabolism?
In the humoral response, what protein substances help neutralize or eliminate toxins and pathogens in the blood and lymph?
Most ferns produce the same type of spores and are therefore called what?
In which way do sunspots occur?
What is the most important source of electromagnetic waves on earth?
Conifers are the dominant phylum of gymnosperms, with the most variety of species. most are tall trees that usually bear scale-like or needle-like leaves. the thin shape of the needles and their waxy cuticle limits water loss through this?
Connecting to the brainstem and extending down the body through the spinal column is the spinal cord. the spinal cord is a thick bundle of nerve tissue that carries information about the body to this?
Where do most cubozoans live?
What type of treatment is being researched that may cure or prevent genetic disorders?
What are the names of foul-smelling amines, formed as a part of the decay process after death?
What's it called when the reaction is sped up until equilibrium is established?
What are the smallest particles of water called?
The hormone androgen increases aggressiveness and promotes what type of behaviors?
Which currents distribute heat around the planet and have a large impact on climate?
What type of gas is a harmless gas that living things add to the atmosphere during respiration?
What is formed when hot lava cools?
Which radiations helps sterilize medical supplies?
What type of receptors, also known as intracellular or cytoplasmic receptors, are found in the cytoplasm of the cell and respond to hydrophobic ligand molecules that are able to travel across the plasma membrane?
Why is water important for the nervous system?
What term means the tendency of a mineral to break along certain planes?
What are the parts used in electronic devices such as computers called?
What type of function does the long bone perform?
Metabolism includes both anabolic and which other reaction?
A virus is essentially dna or rna surrounded by a coat of what?
What is the process of generating electric current with a magnetic field?
Increasing what property of dirt would make it easier to rinse off your hands?
Net production efficiency allows ecologists to quantify how efficiently organisms of a particular what incorporate the energy they receive into biomass?
Some hormones produced by the anterior pituitary regulate the production of hormones by other tissues belonging to what system?
A warm-air heating system uses what kind of energy to heat air?
Which type of galaxies contain very little gas and dust, are red to yellow in color, contain over a trillion stars and have mostly old stars?
What is a controlled scientific test that often takes place in a lab?
What causes the endometrium to thicken during a menstrual cycle?
What process refers to the conversion of atmospheric nitrogen to ammonia?
What is it called when two species evolve matching traits?
What is the term for water that falls from clouds?
Echinoderms lack what type of system that in humans consists of the brain and spinal cord?
What class of invertebrate animals has additional appendages called the chelicerae and the pedipalps?
The burning of what type of fuels is a major source of sulfur oxides and nitrogen oxides?
What is the science of classifying living things is called?
What is it called when your joints start to wear out and they become stiff and painful?
Gas, liquid, and solid describe what property of matter?
Differences in fitness among different members of a population can lead to what kind of selection?
What cells carry oxygen?
What coenzyme is used in the transfer of energy in muscles?
Which asexual reproduction method do starfish use to reproduce?
What enables gamma rays to pass through hard matters like bones, teeth, and just about anything?
What type of mammals includes opossums, kangaroos, and koalas?
What do we call animals that have a backbone and belong to the phylum chordata?
Living organisms are affected by changes in ph which can include basic conditions and what other kinds of conditions?
What makes up most of the interior of a plant?
What part of a plant, which is attached to its stem nodes, is the "main organ" of photosynthesis?
Experiments have shown that acceleration is exactly inversely proportional to mass, just as it is exactly linearly proportional to what?
What term describes a disease in which the immune system attacks the body’s own cells?
Flow of what can introduce alleles that are advantageous or ones that are disadvantageous?
A life cycle continues through reproduction and what?
Bacteria are like eukaryotic cells in that they have cytoplasm, ribosomes, and a?
When zinc metal is mixed with sulfur and heated, what is produced?
What cage composed of 12 pairs of ribs, with their costal cartilages and the sternum, protects the heart and lungs?
What is the ability of an atom to emit charged particles and energy from its nucleus called?
Diffusion is an effective transport mechanism over the spatial scales typically found at what level?
In a car race on a circular track, where the start and finish line are the same, what quantity is neglible?
What is another name for molecular compounds?
The long mouth-tube that some insects  use to suck up the nectar of the flower is called what?
Cnvs result from regions of what being duplicated or deleted inconsistently within the population?
Insects can have specialized mouthparts, such as a proboscis, to siphon the nectar from what?
What is the invisible force that pulls things to earth?
What do we call the seasonal movement of animals?
What kind of beneficial relationships with other organisms are common in the plant kingdom?
Some marine algae have evolved special structures capable of what plant process?
What is the substance called whenatoms of different elements join together?
What type of solid has atoms arranged in a repeating pattern?
What is the process called when secretory cells export products?
Natural resources that are limited in supply and cannot be replaced except over millions of years are known as what?
What is a hydrocarbon in which the carbon chain joins to itself in a ring?
The first photosynthetic organisms were not plants, but types of what that lived in the water?
What is the second stage of photosynthesis?
Which layer is the lithosphere located?
What is speed at any given instant called?
During birth, a baby passes from the uterus through what organ to leave the body?
What type of earthquake creates a tsunami?
What is the smallest of the galilean moons?
What is the term for a combination of substances in which there is no chemical reaction?
Where does the majority of chemical digestion occur?
The vertebrate endoskeleton includes a vertebral column, cranium, limbs, and what else?
What is defined as the velocity of the object at a given moment?
What is the term for an expression showing the relationship of the reaction rate to the concentrations of each reactant?
How many pi bonds are found in a triple bond?
What is formed when an acidic solution and a basic solution react together in a neutralization reaction?
What is the causative agent of sleeping sickness in humans?
Living things that use energy to make food, both for themselves and other living things, are what part of an ecosystem?
In science, what process produces evidence that helps answer questions and solve problems?
What cellular structure is used during endocytosis to allow molecules to enter the cell?
What are unique about prokaryotic cells' organelles?
How long ago did the ancestors of mammals evolve?
A  d. melanogaster population has an average heterozygosity of what?
Traits that are affected by more than one gene are what type of traits?
Pharmacist and surveyor are two career options based in what type of science?
What is another term for foodborne illness?
The mechanical advantage of a machine is related to how it changes what?
What term in physics refers to the use of force to move an object?
What is the name of the organelle that helps make and transport proteins and lipids?
What machine is used to determine the calories in food, as well as the average heat yield from burning various grades of coal and oil?
What is the name of the outer part of the adrenal gland located above the kidneys?
What kind of energy used heat from magma within the earth to heat homes or produce steam that turns turbines?
The primary output of the basal nuclei is to the thalamus, which relays that output to where?
The central nervous system is composed of the brain and what else?
A group of genetically identical individuals is called what?
Where on the earth's surface does the water cycle takes place?
Under which conditions do many bacteria carry out alcohol fermentation?
Fermat's principle states that what will always take the path that takes the least amount of time?
What trend is occurring involving the extent of arctic sea ice in summer?
In vertebrates, cholesterol is synthesized in which organ and obtained from the diet?
What is a group of lions called?
Which layer is found below the lithosphere?
What is the name for the nonliving parts of ecosystems?
What do you call the electrons in the outermost energy level of an atom?
What are some of the giant fairy rings produced by?
What are ingrowths on arthropod exoskeletons to which muscles attach?
Which type of electrons plays the most important role in chemical reactions?
What level is greater than 7 in a basic solution?
What happens to volume as the temperature increases?
What does an array of radio telescopes collect?
What kind of compounds contain positively and negatively charged ions in a ratio that results in an overall charge of zero?
What are formed when crystals precipitate out from a liquid?
Roundworms exemplify what type of organization, where two or more types of tissues work together to perform a particular function as an organ?
Where are protons and neutrons located?
Why do hummingbirds have long narrow bills?
Bivalvia and gastropoda are classes of what phylum?
Kinetic energy of moving particles of matter, measured by their temperatures are known as:
What is the term for a process that changes some chemical substances into others?
The diagnosis of a disease or condition before the baby is born is called?
A heterogeneous mixture of particles of one substance distributed throughout a second substance in a different phase is known as what?
On what type of land does runoff cause more erosion?
What kind of fats have been implicated in the presence of heart disease?
Inducible enzymes usually function in what type of pathways?
Since electrons are charged, their intrinsic spin creates a what?
What do bats use to determine the location of objects?
Caffeine is an example of what type of drug?
What is the use of technology to change the genetic makeup of living things for human purposes?
What distinctive configuration of dna demonstrates the base-pairing nature of the bases?
Lipids are broken down by what?
What are considered to be the most basic concepts in the field of physical science?
What are materials that can be magnetized called?
Toxic compounds in the environment have the most severe impact on animals that are top-level what?
In genetics, what do you call characteristics that are passed from a parent to child?
One gram of proteins provides how many calories of energy?
What kind of succession occurs in an area that has never before been colonized?
A sprain is a strain or tear in what part of the body?
Which gland is located in the sella turcica of the sphenoid bone within the cranial floor?
What is light that has only a single wavelength called?
Combined substances are either compounds or what?
What are the catalysts that occur naturally in living organisms and are primarily protein molecules?
Amino acid units in a protein are connected by what bonds?
Magnetism is due to the movement of what within atoms?
Ground subsidence is a consequences of the overuse of what?
What organ do most fish have that is used to detect movement and vibration in the surrounding water?
Excretion is the process of removing excess water and wastes from the body. what are the main organs of excretion?
What is caused by the same virus that causes chicken pox?
Amniotes are animals that produce eggs with membranes possessing what property, which allowed them to lay eggs on land?
When water particles become hot enough to overcome the force of attraction between them, what happens to the water?
In mammals, what layer protects the egg?
After infecting a host, what inactive state do some viruses enter?
Changes in the number of what can lead to disorders like down syndrome?
What are centrioles made from?
What of most species are resistant cells that can survive harsh conditions?
Animals can not produce their own food making them _________.
In the stomach, which material's arrival triggers churning and the release of gastric juices?
What is the term for seed plants?
Cnidarians have a simple digestive system with a single opening surrounded by what type of structures, which are used to capture prey?
What is the state of matter that resembles a gas, but is made of ions, giving it different properties than a typical gas?
Natural selection for what type of trait changes the distribution of phenotypes?
Systemic veins return blood low in what to the right atrium?
The three long muscles on the back of the knee are part of which group?
What shapes, supports, and protects the cell?
What process, which results because of great pressure at the center of a star, causes stars to shine?
What do we call the formation of a gas from a liquid at temperatures below the boiling point?
What is a sugar that is found in fruits?
What are unsaturated hydrocarbons with at least one triple bond between carbon atoms?
Are ecotones wide or narrow?
Which infection of multicellular eukaryotes is usually limited to particular tissues?
What is the term for the breakdown of unstable isotopes into stable elements?
What are the light wavelengths that the human eye can detect called?
Most of the energy used by living things comes either directly or indirectly from what?
Population growth is determined by rates of birth, death, immigration, and what else?
What works by selecting for alleles that confer beneficial traits or behaviors, while selecting against those for deleterious qualities?
Paint keeps oxygen and water from coming into direct contact with the metal, which prevents what?
What type of electrons do all group 14 elements have four of?
List the three major types of blood vessels.
Acetone is the simplest type of what organic compound that involves a carbonyl in which the carbon atom makes single bonds with two other carbon atoms?
What term is used to describe birds that hunt, eat mammals, and other birds?
What do you call a compound that contains both an amino group and a carboxyl group in the same molecule?
What system consists of structures that produce eggs, secrete female sex hormones, and ultimately enable birth of a fetus?
The medieval catapult has a heavy ballast on one end and what on the other end?
What period starts after the baby is born, and the placenta is expelled from the body?
What do you call the lightless part of the ocean?
The creation of a voltage across a current-carrying conductor by a magnetic field is known as what?
Pavement cells, large, irregularly shaped parenchymal cells which lack chloroplasts, make up the majority of what?
What do convergent plate boundaries with trenches have?
Around what percentage of the earth's surface water is contained in the ocean?
What celestial structure does not give off its own light?
Which rule is a result of trends in energies and is useful in explaining why atoms form the ions that they do?
What is the second most common type of cancer in both men and women?
What is the main difference between prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells?
What is a layer of saturated porous rock?
What element, which often forms polymers, has a unique ability to form covalent bonds with many other atoms?
Early in the development of a human fetus, the skeleton is made entirely of what?
What type of disease can be treated by radioactive elements in glucose?
What theory of gases describes this state of matter as composed of tiny particles in constant motion with a lot of distance between the particles?
When egg laying and mating occur together, as in external fertilization, the certainty of what is high?
What control reproductive cycles, which are in turn regulated by environmental cues?
Which gas is responsible for global warming?
The short length of what in women is the best explanation for the greater incidence of uti in women?
What type of cells are flagella rare in?
Solids and liquids are phases of matter that have their own unique what?
What do many fungi secrete that break down complex molecules to smaller molecules that can be absorbed?
All three types of convergent plate boundaries produce what destructive phenomenon?
How do plants obtain their energy?
The mouth, stomach, esophagus, small intestine, and large intestine are all part of what organ system?
An environment in which cells neither sink nor swell is known as what?
Particulates from cigarette smoke that enter what structures can cause a permanent reduction in lung capacity?
Terrestrial arthropods generally have internal surfaces specialized for what?
What are the two groups that tripoblastic eucoelomates can be divided into based on early embryonic development differences?
What part of the cell is surrounded by a membrane and holds the genetic information for the cell?
What are angiosperms most important function to humans?
How many atoms are evenly organized around a central atom?
What are formed by atoms gaining electrons?
What type of fish are the majority of living species?
What are the light highlands of the moon called?
The shape of earlobes is an example of what kind of trait, which is influenced by genes and passed along through generations?
Mosses, liverworts, and hornworts are examples of what type of plant in which gametophyte generation is dominant?
Release of spores in a suitable environment will lead to germination and a new generation of what?
Why are living things considered to be renewable?
What is the term for the metabolic reaction where living systems build new molecules?
Name the three types of muscle tissue.
Cellular respiration and photosynthesis are important parts of which cycle?
What are the winds that occur in belts that encircle the planet?
Human mammary glands can produce what substance, which can be used to feed children?
What is a prerequisite for fertilization to take place in plants?
Water is allowed to flow downhill into a large turbine to harness power. what helps the turbine spin?
The movement of bone away from the midline of the body is called what?
What occurs when so much water enters a stream or river that it overflows its banks or when deep snow melts very quickly in spring?
What is the cause of the “heartburn” that occurs when acidic digestive juices escape into the esophagus?
By 180 million years ago, pangaea began to do what?
What has  a single voltage source and a single resistor
What property is associated with the number of reactant molecules involved in an elementary step?
During an earthquake, wet soils become like what?
What helps sound travel in waves?
What kind of relationship between glucagon and insulin is vital to managing fuel storage and consumption by body cells?
The yellowstone hot spot is a famous example of a what?
Ionic compounds take on the form of extended three-dimensional arrays of cations and what else?
Electric generators convert what type of energy to electric energy?
What can autographs do that heterotrophs cannot do?
The primary amine in which the nitrogen atom is attached directly to a benzene ring has a special name, what is it?
What  is formed when each sodium atom donates its single valence electron to a chlorine atom?
The fujita scale measures the intensity of what weather event, based on wind speed and damage?
What allows the electrons to move in an electrochemical system.
The simplest type of battery contains what?
A newborn baby has a soft spot on the top of its head. over the next few months, the soft spot gradually does what?
Microwaves are converted into what kind of energy in a microwave oven?
What is the process of moving air into and out of the lungs called?
What plays the same role in rotational motion that force plays in linear motion.
Ions are charged what?
What occurs when a parent cell splits into two identical daughter cells of the same size?
What kind of scientist is concerned with facets of geomorphology, topography, vegetation, and climate?
What was the first antiseptic called?
Which model helps explain molecules with double or triple bonds?
Name the plant considered to be the ancestor of plants?
How can bacterial stis usually be cured?
Where do organisms acquire toxic substances from along with nutrients and water?
What was the first widely used antibiotic?
Decay of what provides some of earth's internal heat?
Plants are complex organisms with tissues organized into what?
What are mammals that lay eggs called?
What do monotremes have instead of a uterus and vagina?
What part of the body controls the responses of hunger and satiety?
What kind of reactions absorb energy from their surroundings as they occur?
Hybrid orbitals are formed only in which type of bonded atoms?
Most autotrophs make their "food" through which process, using the energy of the sun?
Because heating results in a greater fraction of molecules having the necessary kinetic energy to escape the surface of the liquid, what occurs more quickly when liquid is heated?
What is the term for a theoretical framework for describing evolutionary change in populations through the change in allele frequencies?
In which specific organs are hormonal cells located?
Found in plants and algae, chloroplasts are the site of what process?
Water behind a dam has potential energy. moving water, such as in a waterfall or a rapidly flowing river, has this?
What part of the cell helps it keep its shape?
What is the term for crops that are genetically modified with new genes that code for traits useful to humans?
What is the rate at which a specific allele appears within a population called?
Memory t cells are long-lived and can even persist for how long?
What fluid becomes less viscous, allowing for better joint function after stretching?
Chains of small molecules called nucleotides make up what?
What is the preferred method for separating late transition metals from their ores?
When na 2 hpo 24 − (the weak acid) comes into contact with a strong base, such as sodium hydroxide (naoh), the weak acid reverts back to the weak base and produces what?
What system is designed to facilitate the transformation of food matter into the nutrient components that sustain organisms?
What are the sporophytes in ferns?
The measure of how much a given volume of matter decreases when placed under pressure is called?
What are two major categories of mutations?
Chemical equations in which heat is shown as either a reactant or a product are called what?
Clams, oysters, scallops, and mussels are examples of what type of species?
What is it called when a charge moves against a field?
The as yet undiscovered grand unified theory is a search to unify laws of what branch of science?
What basic cell structure is made up of a phospholipid bilayer and two layers of phospholipid molecules?
Earthworms and ants possess what type of bodies, which means division into multiple parts?
Gfci stands for ground-fault circuit what?
What genetic unit is formed when the dna double helix wraps around proteins and tightly coils a number of times?
What are fresh water biomes defined by?
What is the amount of time a molecule stays in a reservoir known as?
What is the study of chemical processes that occur in living things?
What prohibits knocking out genes?
The  populations that live in the same area form this?
The rate at which an unstable isotope decays is measured in a unit known as what?
If two chlorine atoms share their unpaired electrons by making a covalent bond and forming cl2, they can each complete their what?
How many pairs of upper jaws do insects have?
Where does the shoot system get the water and minerals that it depends on?
Potential energy is present in objects that are what?
What are flightless birds that are strong swimmers and spend much of their time in the water?
What describes how close an estimate is to a known standard?
What is the measure of the energy released when an extra electron is added to an atom?
In what type of population do allele and genotype frequencies not change over time?
What bodily substance is formed from cells, and in turn helps make up organs?
What is the electrode at which reduction occurs called?
Smog is one example of what type of pollution?
What do you call a circuit that consists of one loop, which if interrupted at any point, causes cessation of the whole circuit's electric current?
What type of input is not required during passive transport?
Which organ of our body is harmed if you get meningitis?
What is the unique layer of nerve cells covering the cerebrum in mammals' brains called?
The direction of the rotation of hurricanes is influenced by which force?
The name of which ion always comes first?
What is the most familiar fibrous protein found in your body?
Ice floats because it is less what than liquid water?
Where are the pharyngeal slits located?
What filters pathogens and worn out red blood cells from the blood?
Muscle atrophy due to age is called what?
Lead shielding is used to block what type of rays?
What sulfur compound occurs in volcanic gases and in the atmosphere near industrial plants?
What bodily structures consist of the endothelium and its basal lamina?
The extent to which a substance may be dissolved in water or another solvent is known as what?
What do you call cellular respiration that does not need oxygen to proceed?
What is the name for creatures such as bears and humans that eat both consumers and producers?
What are compounds with the same number of carbon and hydrogen atoms called?
Developing cars that run on hydrogen gas can help solve our dependence on what?
What also receives input from other areas of the forebrain through the medial forebrain bundle?
What type of science is the application of science to answer questions related to the law?
What kind of charge do iconic compounds have?
A catalyst decreases the amount of what resource that is required in order to begin a chemical reaction?
Ribozymes are rna molecules that catalyze what?
In what state of matter is butter at room temperature?
Ordinary table salt is called what?
Secondary pollutants form from chemical reactions that occur when pollution is exposed to what?
What is the sum of the massess of the atoms in a molecule?
Neutrophils and lymphocytes are examples of what type of cell?
What is the space around the magnet called?
What cannot exist between energy levels?
Transferring what from sodium to chlorine decreases the radius of sodium by about 50%?
What is the name for membrane-bound sacs that function in storage and transport?
What structures include the vagina, uterus, ovaries, and fallopian tubes?
Where do the steps in the water cycle begin?
What does the structure of a protein start with?
What is the small intestine lined with that helps with nutrient absorption?
What visual property of soil indicates fertility and nitrogen content?
What waves require a material medium such as water, air, or rope?
Which continent is covered with an ice cap?
What type of organisms do carnivores feed on?
What is the ability to be attracted by a magnet and to act as a magnet?
What consists of the different species within an area?
What do prevailing winds influence?
What do you call a process that uses microorganisms to consume a pollutant?
What is the term for a disturbance in matter that causes the transfer of energy from place to place?
Exemplified by cesium, which ignites spontaneously in air, pure elements with a high metallic character tend to be very what?
What is the term for the use of two or more lewis structures to represent the covalent bonding in a molecule?
All eukaryotic cells have mitochondria, but not all eukaryotic cells have what?
Which part of the body of amphibians, easily absorbs substances from the environment?
What element do plants use to store energy as atp?
What is the term for the deepest places on earth?
The posterior pituitary is an extension of what anatomical structure?
What occurs when the cartilage at the ends of the bones breaks down?
What do the planets orbit around in the solar system?
Which period after birth has the most rapid growth?
What does sexual reproduction with gametes and fertilization produce?
What keeps the earth orbiting the sun?
The depth of the atmosphere is greatest where?
The lungs, kidneys, skin, and large intestine are all part of what organ system?
What is the male gamete called in humans?
The lifecycle of an ascomycete is characterized by the production of what during the sexual phase?
What does the concentration of a solution represent?
What is the term for any behavior that occurs only after experience or practice?
What do we call the movement of individuals into a population from other areas?
Enzymes, proteins, electron carriers, and pumps that play roles in glycolysis, the citric acid cycle, and the electron transport chain tend to catalyze reactions that are what?
Is purifying water a simple or complicated process?
What is a sac-like organ at the end of the esophagus?
Substances may be either elements or what?
Visible light can be split into colors with the use of a what?
Marshes, swamps, and bogs are types of what?
What is the chief organ of the urinary system?
What type of winds blow over a limited area?
In terms of scientific investigation, things you notice about an environment using your five senses are called what?
What is the final product of the calvin cycle?
The nail bed is a specialized structure of the epidermis that is found at the tips of our what?
The anatomical arrangement of capillaries and alveoli emphasizes the structural and functional relationship of what systems?
What term describes all but the sex chromosomes?
The sun and all objects held by it's gravity make up the?
From the uterus, where do sperm travel next?
What completes the process as undigested material passes out of the digestive system?
What is a thin layer of gas that surrounds earth called?
What does all matter consist of?
What do you call a system that has one or more planets orbiting one or more stars?
The longest period of daylight hours occurs at the beginning of what season?
H2o is the chemical formula for what?
What occurs when light interacts with our atmosphere?
Layers of placental transfer cells help transport nutrients to the embryos as they develop into what?
The kayak’s motion in the water is an example of classical addition of what?
Introduction genetics is the study of what?
A _______ of biology is a fundamental concept that is just as true for a bee or a sunflower as it is for us.
Ionic liquids heating a salt to its melting point produces a what?
What is the term for the temperature at which a solid changes into a liquid?
What does glycolysis generate in phase ii?
These vacuoles take water from the cytoplasm and excrete it from the cell to avoid bursting due to what?
Where does the purple color in quartz come from?
What is the largest part of the brain?
Data from paleontology offer insights into the early evolution of what?
One crystalline form of calcium carbonate is the mineral sold as what?
Human evolution shows that evolutionary changes typically occur at what pace?
When bacteria enter the bloodstream, the result is what condition?
Solid-state radiation detectors convert ionization produced in a semiconductor (like those found in computer chips) directly into what?
Most, if not all, of the extant animal phyla today evolved during the cambrian period, yet many of what devastating events have taken place since then?
What is the name for the energy required for an electron to be added to a neutral atom in its gaseous form?
Carbon atoms have six neutrons as well as how many protons?
What term means that only molecules or ions of a certain size, shape, polarity or charge are capable of passing through the material?
What holds together the small molecules called nucleotides which make up nucleic acids?
What type of cell contains a nucleus?
What method uses a retailer's coding method to catalog biological specimens in museums?
The level of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is greatly influenced by the reservoir of carbon where?
Who controls prey population?
In which organs does gas exchange take place between blood and air?
The frequency of sound waves is measured in what unit?
Does an increase in temperature speed up or slow down reactions?
An obstacle or opening that is shorter than the wavelength causes greater diffraction of what?
Corals build hard exoskeletons that grow to become coral what?
What is the name of the procedure where an unknown compound can be analyzed in the laboratory in order to determine the percentages of each element contained within it?
While spermatogenesis produces four haploid sperm cells, oogenesis produces one mature what?
What are groups of tens to hundreds of thousands of stars held tightly together by gravity called?
What is the general name for the homogeneous mixture that is formed when a solute dissolves in a solvent?
Life itself could not exist without what energy, which plays a vital role in photosynthesis?
What does power imply is happening to energy?
Because the masses of subatomic particles are so small, a new unit, called what, was defined?
Which organ breaks down amino acids and toxins that are in the blood?
Which compound has positively and negatively charged ends?
What system of the body is responsible for producing hormones?
What happens to a substance in a liquid state when the temperate is lowed?
Sublimation and deposition involve direct transitions between solid and gas without going through which state?
What is the process by which plants and animals increase in size?
Which glands sit atop the kidneys and are composed of an outer cortex and an inner medulla, all surrounded by a connective tissue capsule?
What is it that surrounds cells and serve to keep the insides separated from the outsides?
What is the gland in the chest behind the breast bone that stores some types of lymphocytes while they mature?
What promotes cell division and are necessary for growing plants in tissue culture?
What map shows the locations of several genes on the x chromosome?
Although they are as different as deserts and wetlands, all of these ecosystem units have populations of interacting species?
What is the name of the bone that forms the forehead?
What is the name for a molecule with two atoms?
What type of motor is used in most household devices with moving parts?
What process determines the dna sequence of an entire genome?
What disease can too little calcium cause?
In a scientific investigation, what do you call a direct, physical observation of something or a process?
The volume of blood each ventricle pumps per minute is called what?
How does consuming enterobactin help our body?
Green cyanobacteria on a lake produce food through what process?
Because the human body is about 70% water by mass, and liquid water has high specific heat, a great deal of what is required to change its temperature?
The process of making a polymer is called what?
Behind a ship, what is the giant rectangular bucket that is dragged along from the behind called?
What is it called when multiple faults are located in close proximity to one another?
Binding of acetylcholine to receptors on the muscle fiber leads to a?
Most tunicates live a sessile existence in shallow ocean waters and are suspension feeders. the primary foods of tunicates are plankton and this?
Ginkgo trees are gymnosperms with broad?
Recrystallization is a process that can remove what, which result when compounds are synthesized?
What is one of the most common biochemical compounds on earth and is found in all plants?
What man-made structures orbit all of the inner planets as well as jupiter and saturn?
What basic structures take in nutrients from the soil and help the plant survive?
What does ubiquitin indicate about a protein's lifespan?
Which vertebrae carry the greatest amount of body weight and are thus characterized by the large size and thickness of the vertebral body?
Because of it's repeating pattern, what is mendeleev's table of the elements called?
Where does an electron move to after it absorbs energy?
What is needed by all known forms of life?
What lengths are positive for converging lens and negative for diverging lens?
Where does most geological activity takes place?
Birds have light-weight bones that are filled with what?
Why does a large log burn relatively slowly compared to the same mass of wood in the form of small twigs?
What is usually necessary to develop cancer?
Consumers are organisms that depend on other organisms for what?
Wine, air, and gunpowder are all examples of what kind of common mixtures?
What is the term for anything that can cause cancer?
What system of organs delivers blood to all cells of the body?
What part of a chromosome exists in different states of condensation at different times?
What do the ears have to be protected from in order to avoid hearing loss?
What is the first and longest phase of mitosis known as?
Plants reduce nitrate back to what before incorporating the nitrogen into organic compounds:?
Growth factors and certain plant and animal hormones serve as molecular messengers that initiate pathways of what?
When a wave travels down a string, the string vibrates up and down at right angles to the wave's what?
Generally speaking, electronegativity values ______ from left to right across a row in the periodic table and _______ down a column.
The most magnetic material in nature is what?
Goldfish, tuna, salmon, perch, and cod are examples of which group of fish?
A bicycle is an example of a compound machine made of many what?
What is the term for a system maintaining a stable internal environment in a changeable external environment?
When carbon atoms are not bonded to as many hydrogen atoms as possible, what kind of hydrocarbon results?
When magma heats groundwater, it may come to the surface as a hot spring or a what?
Fish have a circulatory system with a two-chambered what?
What is the measure of water potential?
What is the largest organelle in a eukaryotic cell?
Neurologists are physicians who specialize in disorders of what system?
How is flowing water and blowing wind similar?
What is the study of heredity called?
What is a disease characterized by high concentrations of glucose in the blood?
What is responsible for the properties of metals?
What is the first year of life following birth called?
Where are electrons located in relation to the nucleus?
What type of switch automatically opens a circuit if too much current flows through it?
The net effect of aldosterone is to conserve and increase water levels in the plasma by reducing the excretion of what element, and thus water?
An element that is generally a poor conductor of heat and electricity is known as a ______
An electron in an atom is completely described by four of what?
Organic compounds are molecules built around what element?
What is the term for the application of science to solve problems?
What sorts of collisions do not result in an overall loss of kinetic energy?
The human genome has how many more alu elements than the chimpanzee genome?
What are all of the digits that can be known with certainty in a measurement plus an estimatied last digit called?
The human male and female reproductive cycles are controlled by the interaction of hormones from the hypothalamus and anterior pituitary with hormones from reproductive tissues and organs. in both sexes, the hypothalamus monitors and causes the release of hormones from this?
What property does liquid display when it interacts with glass?
Where does chemical digestion mainly occur?
What is the name of the first leaf developed inside an embryo?
Interconnected pathways through which carbon is recycled through the biotic and abiotic components of what?
Composed largely of the polysaccharide chitin, the exoskeleton provides an effective barrier defense against most what?
A wall of rocks or concrete that juts out into the ocean perpendicular to the shore is called?
Oils are liquid lipids that plants use to store what?
A perfectly inelastic collision reduces internal kinetic energy to the minimum it can have while still conserving what?
Which theorem states that, if a population meets certain conditions, it will be in equilibrium?
What is greatest source of hazardous waste?
A circuit that consists of two loops is called a what?
Hyenas and cockroaches are examples of what decomposers that consume the soft tissues of dead animals?
What helps to convert some molecules to forms that can be taken up by other organisms?
As hydrostatic pressure in the kidneys increases, what happens to the amount of water leaving the capillares?
What is the percentage of production transferred from one trophic level to the next
What is the metal part of the compound named as?
How do plants and algae both make food?
All dinosaurs (except those which led to birds) went extinct at the end of which period?
What is destroying the layer of good ozone?
In which state does matter need to be for nuclear fusion?
Just as salty taste involves perception of sodium ions in saliva, what taste correlates with presence of glucose?
How is eye color in humans determined?
What term is given to flatworms because they lack a body cavity?
Some soil water can flow through easily. what kind of soil is this?
What is contained in the cavity of a long bone's central shaft?
Bacterial contamination of foods can lead to digestive problems called what?
What can be looked at to see a record of how horses evolved?
What natural destructive element cuts away at rock forming river valleys?
What do we call an interruption in the normal conduction pathway of the heart?
Mixtures that have the same composition throughout are known as what kinds of mixtures?
The wavelength of a what type of wave can be measured as the distance between two adjacent compressions?
What kind of muscle is found in the heart?
Streamlines are smooth and continuous when flow is laminar, but break up and mix when flow is what?
What does water treatment do to water?
What is named after the type of enzyme they interact with in the cell?
What types of genes encode transcription factors?
What factor largely determines the distinguishing features of terrestrial biomes?
What is the term for vascular plants that reproduce with seeds?
What is thought to be the oldest eukaryotes?
Which landmark book on evolution via natural selection did charles darwin publish in 1859?
Archaeans help break down sewage in waste treatment plants, so they fulfill what important role?
If an atom gains electrons, it becomes what?
The formula mass of a covalent compound is also called the what?
Both pathways that isolate a population reproductively in some form, allopatric and sympatric describe what, which means the creation of new species?
Common disease of what system include  asthma, pneumonia, and emphysema?
Translucent matter is matter that transmits and does what else to light?
Diet correlates with the length of what organ system in vertebrates?
What is the process of processing used material into new ones called?
What equals the mass of the object (in kilograms) times the acceleration due to gravity (9.8 m/s 2 )?
Where does visible light fall in between on the electromagnetic spectrum?
Having polar bonds may make a covalent compound what?
Shortening of muscle fibers is called what?`
About how many thunderstorms are there each year worldwide?
What are a group of protists whose monophyly is well supported by molecular systematics?
What is measured by the intensity of the sound waves?
Parasitic fungi often cause illness and may eventually do what to their hosts?
Coronary heart disease is caused when what blocks coronary arteries?
Air is an example of what state of matter?
What descend from clouds in funnel-like shapes that spin violently, producing powerful winds?
What term describes the long-term, predictable atmospheric conditions of a specific area?
Between meals, when the level of blood glucose drops below a certain point, a signal is sent to what organ saying “make more glucose"?
Where does the krebs cycle take place?
What state of matter is like a liquid in that particles are in contact with each other, but unlike liquids in that the intermolecular forces are strong enough to hold the particles in place?
What is the term for a natural situation which arises to physically divide organisms?
Digestion of carbohydrates is performed by several enzymes. starch and glycogen are broken down into glucose by amylase and maltase. sucrose (table sugar) and lactose (milk sugar) are broken down by sucrase and this?
What is defined as a phasic change in muscle tone?
What is a force that opposes motion between any surfaces that are touching?
What are structures that have a common function and suggest common ancestry?
Which  type of cell division halves the number of chromosomes?
Objects in motion that return to the same position after a fixed period of time are said to be in what?
What is the relationship of multiple action potentials from a single cell resulting in a significant change in the membrane potential?
Plant cells have cell walls that are made of what?
What disease associated with smoking involves breakdown of walls of the alveoli, resulting in less gas exchange by the lungs?
Molds and yeasts are organisms in what kingdom?
Bacteria can be used to make cheese from milk. the bacteria turn the milk sugars into what?
Independent assortment occurs when what go to opposite poles of the cell in anaphase i?
What term is used to describe an immunity that occurs after exposure to an antigen either from a pathogen or a vaccination?
Changes in temperature, ph, and exposure to chemicals may lead to permanent changes in the shape of a protein, leading to loss of function known as what?
What term is used to describe phages capable of using both modes of replicating within a bacterium?
Many observatories are built on high mountains to avoid interference from what?
Like earth, the moon has a distinct crust, mantle, and what else?
Reflection, refraction, and diffraction are examples of what type of interaction?
What type of molecules are found in the hydration shell of a dissolved ion?
Tuataras, lizards, and snakes are members of what subclass of reptiles?
What do waves deposit in relatively quiet areas along a shore?
What is the smallest unit of structure and function of all living organisms?
What kind of fertilization do birds have?
What is the term for an organism, or single living thing?
Which of newton's laws states that the quantity of angular momentum in a closed system is fixed?
What is the force that slows down or stops motion?
What is it called when poles are in opposite positions?
What is a feature that prokaryotes lack?
They had demonstrated that particles smaller than bacteria cause what?
The wrist and base of the hand are formed by what series of small bones arranged in distal and proximal rows?
What does an underwater spider use to breathe and keep alive?
Amphibians are ectothermic vertebrates that divide their time between freshwater and what else?
Water plus other substances makes what?
What type of polarization does a negative object create>
What type of particles can a beta particle be?
The heme parts of a hemoglobin molecule bind with what element?
What is the term for flowering seed plants?
Do nonvascular or vascular plants have a dominant sporophyte generation?
In mismatch repair, other enzymes remove and replace incorrectly paired nucleotides that have resulted from what?
What two structures are found on mars?
What substances dissociate into ions when dissolved in water?
Organisms that depend on other organisms for food play what role in the food chain?
What is the growing root tip protected by?
Ocean water appears cyan because microbes in the water preferentially absorb what color of light?
Both energy and heat can be expressed in units of what?
In fact, when sitting in the sun, many ectothermic lizards have higher body temperatures than what?
In binary fission how many times does a cell split?
What do nonvascular plants reproduce with?
The most powerful or influential individual in a group is sometimes called what?
What is the first stage of cellular respiration?
In which direction does heat always flow through objects?
Like sharks, nearly the entire human skeleton during a specific pre-birth developmental stage is made of what connective tissue?
When this forms underground, volcanoes rise?
Hormones produced by what gland in the neck increase the rate of metabolism in cells throughout the body?
When the ventricles begin to contract, pressure within the ventricles rises and blood flows toward the area of lowest pressure, which is initially in the atria. this backflow causes the cusps of the tricuspid and mitral (bicuspid) valves to close. these valves are tied down to the papillary muscles by these?
What is the skin of most reptiles covered with?
Gasoline, natural gas, fuel oil, diesel fuel, jet fuel, coal, kerosene, and propane are examples of what type of fule?
Nearly all life processes depend on what substance, which is involved in biochemical reactions?
What has increased in the atmosphere throughout the history of the earth?
Which two states of matter have definite volumes?
Tendon, cartilage, and bone are examples of what type of tissue that supports and binds other tissues of the body?
What is the sac-like organ at the end of the esophagus?
Which class of acids acetic acid (ch 3 cooh) belongs to?
What happens to the total energy of the system when heat is positive?
What type of species can alternate between medusa and polyp forms?
Extensive and intensive are categories of properties that apply to what?
The vertebrate circulatory system enables blood to deliver ________ and remove wastes throughout the body.
By what kind of change can a chemical change be reversed?
Earthquakes at convergent plate boundaries mark the location of the what?
New seafloor forms when what object cools?
What are groups of atoms that behave as a single unit called?
Hormones cause cellular changes by binding to receptors on these?
Food provides what type of energy needed by organisms, which is stored in bonds?
Catabolic reactions involve breaking what?
Scientists explain the world based on what?
What is the general name for saturated hydrocarbons?
Changing electric and mnagnetic fields radiate outward when?
What significant part of the cell do prokaryotic cells lack?
Where do ectotherms get most of their heat?
What layer is above the mesosphere?
What is produced by leydig cells in the embryonic testis and stimulates the development of male sexual organs?
What is a continuous flow of electric charges called?
What causes high winds and monsoon storms in the desert?
What are the three most common protective devices?
Which veins return oxygen-rich blood from the lungs to the heart?
Makemake and pluto are classified as what type of celestial object?
What do you call the entire range of wavelengths of electromagnetic waves?
Joules and calories are the units of what?
The brain and spinal cord are part of what system?
The two parathyroid glands are located behind what gland?
Fission is a method of what type of reproduction exhibited by some planarians?
The best method for preparing pure phosphorous acid is by hydrolyzing what?
What bonds result from the overlap of atomic orbitals?
What is a cluster of neuron cell bodies in the pns called?
Unlike the passive form, the sodium-potassium pump uses what type of transport?
On insects, what are the openings on the sides of the abdomen that allows respiration to occur?
Salts of weak acids or bases can affect the acidity or what of their aqueous solution?
Flowers, double fertilization, and fruits are unique features of what life cycle?
What is most often the cause of encephalitis?
Why do microwaves have a higher energy than radio waves?
What is cytology.
When solids change to gasses, they generally pass through what other state?
What is the structure which hangs from a newly hatched salmon larva?
What is made up of the pinna, ear canal, and eardrum?
What type of solvents is glucose insoluble in?
What organ is divided into the duodenum, the jejunum, and the ileum?
Ectotherms undergo a variety of changes at the cellular level to acclimatize to shifts in what?
A comet striking the earth may have caused mass extinction, this would have decreased sunlight, which would have effected what plant process reducing food?
Normal body temperature is ideal for most of what type of reactions?
What separates and strongly unites bodies of adjacent vertebrae?
About 20 percent of carbon dioxide is bound by hemoglobin and is transported where?
Which outermost secondary xylem layers transport water?
What did volcanic gases help to form on earth?
What is formed when the ceiling of an underground cave collapses?
What type of muscle makes up most of the heart?
What measures the amount of water in the air?
Most terrestrial vertebrates have what type of lungs?
What process joins two haploid gametes into a diploid zygote?
Planets are held by the force of gravity in elliptical orbits around what?
What is the fastest land animal?
What is the process by which the remains of living things become fossils?
Meters, such as those in analog fuel gauges on a car, are a common application of magnetic torque on a current-carrying what?
What causes reduction of elasticity in all organs?
How many protons and electrons each do carbon atoms have?
What thickens the cortex around the inner edge of a cell?
What value of dissolved substances is higher than that of their corresponding precipitate?
Is an acid lower or higher than 7 on the ph scale?
Although what biochemicals circulate throughout the body and come into contact with many different cell types, they only affect cells that possess the necessary receptors?
The right atrium receives all of the systemic venous return. most of the blood flows into either the superior vena cava or this?
Tissue is made up of layers of tightly packed cells that line the surfaces of the body, such as skin.
Most lipid hormones are derived from what?
A fact or question is only considered science if it has what property?
Which branch of science is the study of energy, matter, and their interactions?
What is the smallest unit capable of life known as?
Making associations between experiences is often a part of what activity?
The spectrum is made up of discrete lines representing transitions of the hydrogen electron between specific energy levels within what?
In the field of biodiversity, "richness" and "abundance" are used to describe different what?
Nitrogen is an important macronutrient because it is part of nucleic acids and proteins. atmospheric nitrogen, which is the diatomic molecule n2, or dinitrogen, is the largest pool of nitrogen in these?
What is the term for rotation of a bone toward the midline of the body?
What cause rabies, measles, diarrheal diseases, hepatitis, polio, and cold sores?
What are the two methods in which mutations arise in dna?
Water follows where sodium ions lead, due to what process?
What group of simple organisms recycles nutrients and has been on earth since long before multicellular life appeared?
What is the term for dry climate regions at higher altitudes that have short grasses and low bushes?
Changing the frequency of sound waves, will change the _________ of the sound of a musical instrument?
What does the term porifera means?
What zone is the narrow strip along the coastline that is covered by water at high tide and exposed to air at low tide?
Integral and peripheral proteins are associated with what fatty bilayer?
What effect describes how earth’s rotation steers winds and surface ocean currents?
What type of shape does sodium chloride have?
In what form of matter is hydrogen at room temperature?
What is the smallest contractile portion of a muscle?
Which is the fourth planet from the sun?
What type of sti is characterized by blisters?
Radioactive isotopes are characterized by an unstable what?
What exposure risk comes with aerobic respiration?
What are mammals called that reproduce by laying eggs?
In multicellular organisms, only mutations in cell lines that produce gametes can be passed to what?
What type of invertebrates are jellyfish and corals known as?
Living things are highly organized following a hierarchy that includes atoms, molecules, organelles, cells, tissues, organs, and organ systems. organisms, in turn, are grouped as populations, communities, ecosystems, and this?
Carbonic acid can dissociate into hydrogen carbonate ions and what?
Respiration cycles the organic carbon into which gas?
What type of bonds between the bases at the center of the dna double helix hold the helix together?
What are changes in makeup and chemical properties of matter called?
Mammals generate heat primarily by maintaining a high rate of what?
The fossil record indicates that anthropoids began diverging from other primates about how many million years ago?
What is the oxygen carrying component of red blood cells called?
What is a disease in which the immune system makes an inflammatory response to a harmless antigen?
The umbilical cord connects the fetus to what structure?
The vector of what organism is significant on a map showing the location of malaria?
What is the smallest particle of an element that still has the properties of that element is called?
What is already causing food and water shortages and species extinctions?
What is the foundation species of coral reef ecosystems?
When the ph of precipitation is lowered because of air pollution, what results?
What type of barrier physically blocks pathogens from entering the body?
In what do a roundworm's eggs pass from host to the environment?
What is the name of the command center of the cell?
What does the ending 'ology' refer to?
What is the only natural phenomenon that causes more damage than earthquakes?
What is the hypothesis that states that the biosphere is its own living organism?
The kinetic energy of molecules is generally proportionate to what other property that they have?
Several neuropeptides, relatively short chains of amino acids, serve as neurotransmitters that operate via metabotropic what?
What kind of process is boiling?
In science, what is constantly tested, sometimes revised, sometimes thrown out and sometimes well-established?
What is the name of the process in which both the system and its environment can return to exactly the states they were in by following the reverse path?
What must be present on a plant where ladybugs will lay their eggs?
In birds, lightweight air-filled bones and a large four-chambered heart are examples of adaptations for what purpose?
Chemical and solar cells are devices that change chemical or light energy to what?
Stoichiometric coefficients are used in chemical equations to indicate the amounts of reactants and what?
Like acetic acid, pentanoic acid is what kind of acid?
A solute generally has what effect on the boiling point of a solvent?
What type of climates are found around the equator?
What kind of planet do we consider ceres to be?
How many pairs of legs does a millipede have per body segment?
What is the fertilization step in the sexual reproduction of plants?
How do you add two dimensional vectors?
The fact that all living things share the same biochemical building blocks is molecular evidence of what theorized process?
When the monocilia are defective, what is disrupted?
What is a copy of an object that is formed by reflected light?
Hypoxia is a condition of the reduced supply of what?
What part of an atom is positive due to the presence of positively charged protons?
Organs of what male biological system include the penis, testes, and epididymis?
At certain times of year, a stream or river may overflow its banks. what is the area of land that is flooded called?
What are the major types anchoring proteins?
The process where an atomic nucleus breaks apart into two less massive nuclei is known as ______.
Sugar and starch are examples of what type of nutrient?
What term describes a property of a liquid based on the strength of its intermolecular forces?
What do a river and all its tributaries make up?
What structure is the site of all of the basic biochemical processes that keep organisms alive?
How does the magnetic field produced by a current in a wire move?
What are the 3 types of volcanoes?
The fast motion of gas particles gives them a relatively large amount of what energy?
When do alkane reactions usually occur?
What do you call scientists that study the weather, specifically?
What replicates in the s phase of interphase, resulting in chromosomes composed of two linked sister chromatids?
What is located beneath the lithosphere?
What travels 9.5 trillion kilometers a year?
What population on earth is already harming the environment due to less resources to go around?
What is the female reproductive structure of a flower called?
Red giants are stars that fuse what element into larger atoms?
What normal bodily occurrence can cause skeletal muscles to involuntarily contract?
What is the outer layer of the adrenal gland called?
Why would prokaryotes be chemotrophs instead of phototrophs in a deep-sea hydrothermal vent?
How do wolves learn to hunt as a group?
What is the common term for water in its solid state?
If an air mass forms over an ocean it is called what type of air mass?
What is the middle layer that hair pass through before exiting at the surface of the skin?
High per capita use of what means the ecological footprint of the united states is large?
Lakes, ponds, streams, springs, and wetlands are?
What is the the force of attraction that holds together ions?
What is the ability of a material to return to its original shape after being stretched or compressed?
How much of the soil is made of pieces of rock and minerals?
Comprised mainly of collagen and associated with long bones and the skull, hyaline is the most widespread type of what?
Bacterial dna is contained in one circular chromosome, located where?
During which phase is the moon more than half lit but not full?
What force is caused by microscopic bumps, lumps, and imperfections colliding?
What is the period during which humans become sexually mature called?
What is another word for brooding-  keeping eggs warm while the embryos develop?
Which type of natural disturbance in temperate grasslands, can be caused by a lightning strike?
What is another name for mother of pearl?
What type of salts are secreted into the small intestine to aid in the digestion of fats?
Lavas that cool underwater are called what?
What is oceanography the study of?
What tissue system has neither dermal nor vascular tissues?
Around 97% of all water on earth is what type of water?
Which type of diabetes is more common?
All waves are the way energy travels through what?
What  is the cause of behavioral difference between populations?
What is the term for the process in which glucose is made using light energy?
Skeletal muscle tissue is arranged in bundles surrounded by this?
What element on the periodic table forms the most diverse compounds?
As the number of unpaired electrons increases, what happens to the magnetic moment?
What kind of container is used to measure heat changes during a chemical reaction or physical process?
In the mammal family, what is the name for hoofed animals, such as deer, sheep, goats, pigs, buffalo, elephants and giraffes?
In the nematic phase, only the long axes of the molecules are parallel, and the ends are staggered at random intervals. in the smectic phase, the long axes of the molecules are parallel, and the molecules are also arranged in planes. finally, in thecholesteric phase, the molecules are arranged in layers; each layer is rotated with respect to the ones above and below it to give it this?
What term means the force of attraction that holds together oppositely charged ions?
In single-celled organisms, plasma membrane extensions, such as whip-like flagella or brush-like cilia, aid in what?
What is defined as male gametes that form in the testes and mature in the epididymis?
All planets exhibit the same or nearly the same direction and shape of what path around the sun?
What do you call a change in the dna or rna sequence?
What is produced when hydrogen gas and oxygen gas are ignited?
What is the term for the buildup of electric charge on an object, which can be transferred to another when touched?
What is the basis of the classification of protists?
What is the movement of animals from one place to another called?
What does the respiratory system exchange between the body and the outside air?
In the body, second in volume to intracellular fluid is what type of fluid, which surrounds cells that are not blood cells?
How many sperm does it take to fertilize an egg?
The volume of a regularly shaped solid can be calculated from its what?
What is approximately the average stroke volume in humans?
Systemic communication through the phloem helps integrate the functions of the whole what?
What structure shows the bonding between atoms, with dots representing available electrons?
What is a thick, dark brown or black liquid found in rock layers of the earth's crust?
What are indestructible and constantly in motion?
What kind of reaction do you see when the concentration of reactants is higher?
What part of a plant protects the plant cell, maintains its shape, and prevents excessive uptake of water?
The process of splitting atoms creates what kind of waste?
Chromosomal alterations are mutations that change what?
When an atom gains or loses an electron it becames an?
What is a type of cell that supports neurons and maintains their environment?
The coordinated activities of the legume and the rhizobium bacteria depend on what between the partners?
The purpose of scientific investigations generally is to test a what?
The most common curved mirrors are what?
What type of tissue covers the outside of a plant in a single layer of cells called the epidermis?
In a molecular compound, electrons are shared between atoms in which type of bond?
What process does water undergo to leave behind dissolved substances?
What type of proteins bind to foreign substances and attempt destruction?
Photosynthesis involves reactions that are dependent on what?
Like simple hormone pathways, hormone cascade pathways typically involve what kind of feedback?
The ocean basin begins where the ocean meets what?
What causes cobalt chloride to turn pink?
What bodily defense can be acquired in an active or passive way, and can be natural or artificial?
Like the stem, what basic plant structure contains vascular bundles composed of xylem and phloem?
What kind of symmetry do echinoderm larvae have?
Reducing waste, as well as reusing and recycling resources, can help save what?
What is a person who studies the frequency and distribution of disease within human populations and environments called?
In adaptive radiation, what is the name of the initial species that then subsequently becomes multiple other ones?
The structures of both trifluoramine and hydroxylamine are similar to that of what?
What protects reptiles from drying out?
How many chromosomes do bacterial dna have?
What makes blue cheese blue?
What type of evolution often happens in species that have symbiotic relationships?
Helicopter pilots can recover from piloting errors by decreasing altitude, turning some of their potential energy into what kind of energy?
Rise divided by run is called what?
Where did west nile first appear?
How do cancer cells typically spread from one part of the body to another?
The rate of the accumulation of neutral what serves as a type of population-based biological clock?
The transmitted light strikes a photoelectric tube, which converts the light energy to?
About how many grams of carbohydrates are in a typical apple?
What is the smallest unit of a chemical element called?
What is the term for a scalar measure of how quickly an object is moving along this line?
A redox reaction rearranges what subatomic particles?
What substances digest the food in the vacuole of an ingestive protist?
What type of force allows non-polar molecules to interact?
What is a thin layer of bacteria that sticks to a surface?
The amount of water vapor in the air and the temperature of the medium affects how fast what travels?
An rna codon reading guu encodes for what?
Scanning acoustic microscopes use what kind of waves to scan a specimen?
The contents of which organ are mixed every 20 seconds?
How many chambers are in a reptiles heart?
What is the opening in the front of the eye called?
When salinity and pressure increase, or when temperature decreases, what happens to water density?
The bending of a wave around the edges of an opening or an obstacle is called this?
What controls the shape of a developing zygote early in its development?
What happens to structural genes in the presence of tryptophan?
What type of pressure may build up inside the cell when water moves into a cell by osmosis?
What is the process by which plants make their own food called?
Conductivity, oxidation state and physical appearance are properties that help determine whether what are metals?
What specific part of the brain regulates the endocrine system?
Chemical reactions follow which laws?
There are three basic types of hormones: lipid-derived, amino acid-derived, and what?
Fertilization occurs when an egg and sperm come together to form a what?
The explosion of nitroglycerin, which releases large volumes of gases, is what type of reaction?
What done ozone help protect against?
What category of food includes sugars, starches and fibers?
What are substances that the body needs for energy, building materials, and control of body processes?
What law shows the relationships among temperature, volume, and pressure?
What 2 things keep polar bears warm in their arctic ecosystem?
What two things are a phospholipid molecules composed of?
When plants reproduce, the offspring has characteristics similar to the?
Algae are like plants mainly because they contain what?
The radius of an atom is defined as one-half the distance between the nuclei in a molecule consisting of two identical atoms joined by what?
What is it called when a mistake occurs in dna replication.
Birds are thought to have evolved around 150 million years ago from what?
The mostly subterranean lifestyle of stone plants reduces water loss from evaporation and inhibits what?
What is the term for the process in which an area that has never before been colonized changes through time?
All the major landmasses moved together to form one supercontinent in which period?
A problem with using food chains to describe ecosystems is that some organisms can feed on or be consumed by species from more than one of what level?
What is the practical application of scientific principles and discoveries to develop things that make our lives easier?
In plants, a cell plate is formed during cell cytokinesis by golgi vesicles fusing at the what?
What is the type of volcano with a tall cone shape that you picture when picturing a volcano?
The amount of what entering the eyes helps control the biological clock?
Protists are classified as animal-like, plant-like, or what else?
Satellite and schwann cells are the two types of what kind of cell found in the pns?
What compound has positive and negative ions?
What can be calculated given the mass and speed of an object?
Earthquakes mark the motions of colliding plates and the locations where plates plunge into what?
The ambrosia beetle bores holes in?
What effect, related to weather forecasting, occurs not only for sound but for any wave when there is relative motion between the observer and the source?
What is the science of how traits are passed from parents to offspring?
When an electron transitions from an excited state to a less excited state, or ground state, the difference in energy is emitted as a what?
Water from the land and oceans enters the atmosphere by which process?
What country put seven salyut space stations into orbit between 1971 and 1982?
The result of what, in places like the amazon rainforest, is that food will be harder to produce, clean water will be harder to find, and development of new medicines will become slower?
What does rising and sinking air influence in a region?
Refracting and reflecting telescopes are optical telescopes that use lenses to gather what?
Via what process do substance move from one cell to another?
What is a stellar remnant that is very dense?
What methods allow scientists to add to scientific knowledge and gain a better understanding of the world?
What is the largest level of organization?
Living species of chordates are classified into three major subphyla: vertebrata, urochordata, and what?
What force explains why a tennis ball bounces differently on different surfaces, and shoes slip on some surfaces but stick on others?
The term ion applies to entire molecules that are?
Silicon and germanium react with nitrogen at high temperature to form what?
What bond is the force of attraction that holds together oppositely charged ions?
What is the pairing of an adult male to an adult female to produce young?
The cell expels waste and other particles through a process called what?
What are diodes, transistors, and integrated circuits examples of?
Shedding of dead cells ensures constant renewal of what outer layer of the skin?
What causes cumulus clouds to grow upward?
What term is used to describe a region getting significantly less precipitation than normal for an extended period of time?
What is the name for compounds that contain only carbon and hydrogen?
What human disease is caused by a defective enzyme that is unable to produce melanin, the pigment responsible for the color of skin and hair?
Individuals with sickle cell anemia have crescent-shaped what?
Nearly all weather occurs in the lower part of what?
For skeletal development, the most common template is what?
The body's second line of defense against pathogens includes which response?
Hiv is a retrovirus, which means it reverse transcribes its rna genome into what?
Plants can tell the time of day and time of year by sensing and using various wavelengths of what
In eukaryotes, the major mechanism for shuffling genes is what?
The vas deferens and ejaculatory ducts transport sperm from the epididymes to the urethra in what system?
What do nearly all animals have in common with regards to digestion?
What are the secretions released by the endocrine glands called?
What are chromosomes in the same pair called?
What do you call plastids that contain the green pigment chlorophyll?
What important and unusual physical property (for birds) do ostriches and penguins share?
What are changes in membrane potential that vary continuously with the strength of a stimulus are known as?
The moon has a crust, mantle, and a?
What type of coal is formed at lower temperatures?
What can sodium ions not pass through?
What happens when the kidneys cannot remove wastes from the blood?
What is another name for nearsightedness?
What is the innermost layer of the sun called?
What device is used to study charge?
What term is used to describe large numbers of species that go extinct in a short amount of time?
What is the tiny male gametophyte enclosed in a tough capsule?
When zinc reacts with hydrochloric acid, the reaction bubbles vigorously as which type of gas is produced?
Structural adaptations in flying animals often contribute to reduced what?
What diagram is used to reflect evolutionary relationships among organisms or groups of organisms?
What is the energy called that is stored in matter?
What is the term for traits that show wide variation, such as height, skin color, and eye color?
Which system in the human body consists of the heart, a network of blood vessels, and blood?
Volume is another way of measuring what?
What do you call a science that aims to find solutions to practical problems?
What term describes weathering that occurs as water expands when it freezes, wedging apart rock?
How many pairs of chromosomes are found in human cells?
An aqueous solution is a homogeneous mixture in which the most abundant component is what?
What happens to light when it reflects from a rough surface?
Isothermal expansion is a process occurring without a change in?
Nearly all fish reproduce sexually and have what?
Cilia and flagella are generally associated with what function in organisms, whether the function is internal or external?
Do particles collide more in two reactants when they are both in fluid forms or solid forms?
The process of moving from areas of high amounts to areas of low amounts is called what?
Vascular tissue allowed these plants to do what?
What were the first forms of life on earth?
What warms the base of the mantle creating convection currents there?
What do we call an incorrect test result that should have been positive?
The conversion factor between solubility and molar solubility of a compound is known as what?
What describes the process of vesicles fusing with the plasma membrane and releasing their contents to the outside of the cell?
Out of the four ways that allele frequencies of a population can be changed, which way is caused by individuals leaving or joining the population?
What kind of bond doesn't form molecules, but instead forms crystals?
Where does the natural synthesis of lactose occur?
The ratio between the radii of a wheel and axle determines what?
What is the first stage of cellular respiration called?
Many species use their body shape and coloration to avoid being detected by what?
A reference point is used in measurement to make what?
Why do adult herbivores in a herd surround their young?
When orders are sent from your brain to your legs, these signals pass through what type of cells?
What is the leading cause of soil erosion?
What class of organisms help decompose matter to release nutrients and make nutritious food for other organisms ?
A pedigree is a chart which shows the inheritance of a trait over several what?
The release of calcium ions initiates what?
The electron released during beta decay is not an orbital electron but an electron whose origin was where?
What is created by the polymerization of glucose?
Fungi reproduce asexually by fragmentation and either sexually or asexually via what lightweight, windblown structures?
The desire to understand how and why things happen is shared by all branches of what?
The scientific revolution took place where starting in the 1500s?
Ionic bonds are electrostatic attractions between two oppositely charged what?
What is the theoretical event that began the universe often called?
In the cardiovascular system, net filtration pressure represents the interaction of osmotic pressures and what other pressures?
What attracts the earth to the sun?
Fermat’s principle states that light will always take the path of least amount of?
Many enzymes require nonprotein helpers for what activity?
What is often a result of untreated atherosclerosis?
The hormones epinephrine and norepinephrine are released by what?
How many possible alleles do the majority of human genes have?
What occurs during the new moon and full moon, due to gravitational pull?
Alleles that carry deadly diseases are usually which type?
What releases fatty acids and other components from fats and phospholipids?
What kind of energy comes from the position of a charged particle in an electric field?
What does interstellar medium consist of?
Sickle-cell disease significantly impairs the function of what?
What is the enlarged tip of the penis called?
What do you call the point at which the entire weight of a body may be considered to be concentrated?
At how many places does points source pollution enter water?
What do monarch butterfly larvae depend on for their food?
As lava cools, tiny iron-rich crystals line up with earth’s what?
What do we call the amount of time a substance is stored in a reservoir?
Osmotic pressure is important in biological systems because cell walls are what?
When does the diploid zygote form?
What is the minimum number of times a partial lunar eclipse will occur each year?
Microscopes were first developed in the early 1600s by this trade?
What do we call the temperature at which a substance melts?
What is the small, dense region at the center of the atom that consists of positive protons and neutral neutrons?
By  multiplying the force applied by the perpendicular component of the moment arm,what is determined?
What carry messages from our sensory organs and others to the central nervous system?
What do you call the space around a charged particle where the particle exerts electric force on other charged particles?
Natural convection is driven by what forces?
Materials that can be magnetized are called?
The overall purpose of the light-dependent reactions is to convert light energy into this?
Jellyfish belong to which phylum?
Along with changes in the shape of the resonant cavity, growth of what organ in pubescent boys leads to the difference in predominant frequencies in speech between men and women?
What intensifies the response during homeostasis?
What is captured by the sticky structure at the top of the style called the stigma?
What is the term for a sac filled with fluid or other material?
What organ protects the body from injury, water loss, and microorganisms?
In which phase do the sister chromatids separate?
Pinocytosis or "cellular drinking," occurs when the plasma membrane folds inward to form a channel allowing dissolved substances to enter what?
Adult tunicates also develop a sac, called a what?
What is the common measure of how hot or cold something is?
Aquatic biomes in the ocean are called what?
Oxygen reaches what veinless part of the eye by diffusing through its tear layer?
Compound light microscopes use lenses to do what?
What are the "code words" of the genetic code?
What processes allow for the greatest range of rotation within the vertebral column and facilitate the movement of the head?
What property does coulomb electric force depend upon?
What is the process of changing something from a gas to a liquid?
What are the two divisions of vascular plants?
What contains carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen in a ratio of 1:2:1?
During interphase of what process, each chromosome is duplicated, and the sister chromatids formed during synthesis are held together at the centromere region by cohesin proteins?
Like animals, cyanobacteria possess what kind of biological rhythm?
The ocean is the largest marine biome. it is a continuous body of salt water that is relatively uniform in chemical composition; it is a weak solution of mineral salts and decayed what?
What two tubes extend from the upper corners of the uterus?
What term describes a wave in which particles of the medium vibrate at right angles, or perpendicular, to the direction that the wave travels?
Exemplified by rusty iron, what process is defined as the disintegration of a material due to chemical reactions with other substances in the environment?
What is a renewable resource that can take thousand of years to form?
Impenetrable what underlies the soil of the forest?
What is the term for when two opposing processes reach the same speed, resulting in no overall change?
What term describes the number and kinds of species in a location or on the planet?
What energy is stored in a person or object?
What do we call a peptide hormone composed of nine amino acids that lowers blood pressure?
Which lymphoid organ is situated in the upper chest?
What is calculated by subtracting the smallest value from the largest value?
Birds actually have two basic types of feathers: flight feathers and?
What is the name for the process of charging an object by touching it with another charged object?
Labor is the muscular contractions to expel the fetus and placenta from where?
What are topographic maps that show water depths called?
What is the radula made mostly of?
Energy transferred solely due to a temperature difference is called?
In which organ does a baby develop?
What part of an experiment or other investigation consists of the individuals or events that are studied?
The intentional release or spread of agents of disease is known as what?
If pressure is exerted on the rock from one direction, the rock forms layers. this is called what?
What term is used to describe the average weather of a place over many years?
A long chain of monosaccharides linked by glycosidic bonds is known as what?
How do genes located on separate nonhomologous chromosomes sort?
What type of mass movement is a sudden movement of large blocks of rock and soil down a slope?
What consists of structures that produce eggs and secrete female sex hormones?
Lactic acid fermentation is common in muscle cells that have run out of what?
How many sets of chromosomes does each somatic cell have?
Nonflowering vascular plants have three basic types of leaves: microphylls, fronds, and what other type?
What is the most common plant-like protist?
What biochemicals mediate changes in target cells by binding to specific receptors?
New land can be created when what happens to a volcano?
To calculate acceleration without a change in direction, you just divide the change in velocity by the change in what?
What is reduced and forms part of the gelatinous disks sandwiched between the vertebrae in humans?
What type of relationship is parasitism?
What two things are used in optical instruments to reflect or refract light?
What physical property of matter reflects how closely packed the particles of matter are?
What type of boiling point do nonmetals normally have?
Coxal glands collect liquid waste from what?
The main organs of the cardiovascular system are the blood vessels and what else?
What substance flows over the land from precipitation or melting snow or ice?
Most turtle bodies are covered by a special bony or cartilaginous shell developed from their what?
What device uses an electromagnet to change electrical energy to kinetic energy?
What causes the particles of medium to move parallel to the direction of the wave?
Which state of matter lacks a fixed volume, fixed shape, and consists of charged particles?
What type of cell transmits electrical impulses in the nervous system?
What is the force pushing a rocket called?
In headwater streams, what plant process is mostly attributed to algae that are growing on rocks?
What is the term that refers to stored chemical energy in organic matter or wastes?
The process of photosynthesis ultimately gets powered by what kind of energy?
A binary molecular compound is a molecular compound that is composed of what?
Within the first 8 weeks of gestation, a developing embryo establishes the rudimentary structures of all of its organs and tissues from the ectoderm, mesoderm, and endoderm. this process is called what?
What goes through different larval stages?
What is the major cause of chronic respiratory disease as well as cardiovascular disease and cancer?
Monotremes, marsupials, and placental mammals are subclasses of what?
What type of mammal gives birth to young that need to develop further in the mother's pouch after birth?
What is the measure of how closely molecules are packed together?
What is the leading cause of lung cancer?
The golgi removes some sugar monomers and substitutes others, producing a large variety of what?
Parenchymal, collenchymal, and sclerenchymal cells are associated with what types of living things?
What is the name of the location in which a stream or river starts?
What disease occurs when cells in the breast grow out of control and form a tumor?
What process refers to the changes that occur in populations of living organisms over time?
Alkenes can react with what to form alcohols?
Wind blown sand contributes to what type of erosion?
Bases are ionic compounds consisting of hydroxide ions and a what?
What causes the menstrual cycle to be repeated?
What happens when turgid cells in a nonwoody tissue push against each other?
What is the waxy substance that epidermal cells secrete?
What is the length of the route between two points?
According to the first law of thermodynamics, what can neither be created nor destroyed?
What are the three primary pigment colors?
How do organophostbate pesticides work?
In the case of a light bulb, electricity is converted to light and what kind of energy?
Where in relation to the home, are levels of vocs found to be higher?
Density and pressure of air decreases with what?
Energy is absorbed in the process of converting a liquid at its boiling point into a what?
Images in what type of mirror are reversed left and right but not reversed top and bottom?
What do cells produce as they age?
The body of the simplest sponges takes the shape of a cylinder with a large central cavity, called?
Laid on dry land by reptiles, amniotic eggs have what that prevents them from drying out?
What three rs represent the steps that you personally can take to conserve our natural resources and minimize waste?
What is the process that allows organisms with better traits to survive and produce?
What is the term for a substance that increases the rate of a chemical reaction but is not changed or used up in the reaction?
What type of compounds can form crystals?
In grazing, a predator partially eats but does not kill what?
Bone tissues include compact bone, spongy bone, bone marrow, and?
What type of bacteria causes the disease called tuberculosis?
Studies have shown that not only does reproduction have a cost as far as how long male fruit flies live, but also fruit flies that have already mated several times have limited amounts of this?
What are the two most common causes of diseases?
Organic compounds are defined as covalently bonded compounds containing carbon, excluding carbonates and what else?
What drives the turbine in a thermonuclear reactor?
What is the term for physicians and scientists who research and develop vaccines and treat and study conditions ranging from allergies to aids?
Where are temperatures the lowest?
Protecting the surface of metal prevents what?
What type of tissues are major barriers to the entry of pathogens into the body?
Trash that gets into fresh and saltwater waterways is called what type of debris?
What is the term for genes that control the expression of other genes within specific regions of cells in the developing organism?
In vertebrates, what tissue is a type of connective tissue that supports the entire body structure?
Red blood cells don't have a nucleus. this allows them to do what?
The number of electron pairs that hold two atoms together is called?
What occurs when the immune system makes an inflammatory response to a harmless antigen?
What energy source, now making a comeback, has helped propel ships and pump water for many years?
What is it called when the nucleus of an atom splits into two smaller nuclei?
The curie (ci) is one measure of the rate of what?
A unique type of organism is also known as what?
Snakes use what anatomical structure to smell scents in the air?
What chemical element helps forms strong bones and teeth in humans?
The limit to how much solute will dissolve in a given amount of solvent is called what?
What occurs when hot magma transforms rock that it contacts?
What term refers to entities, events or powers regarded as being beyond nature, and cannot be explained by scientific means?
What causes an elastic force in springs?
What effect is responsible for flight paths looking curved?
Wetlands are environments in which the soil is either permanently or periodically saturated with what?
When the ground absorbs the water and it settles below the surface it is called what?
Some metabolic pathways release what by breaking down complex molecules to simpler compounds?
What is the smallest portion of a crystal lattice?
What is one major cause of skin cancer?
Which important decomposers are known to live just about anywhere on earth?
In the scientific method, what is the initial, unproven explanation for why something is occurring?
What is the name of an element with a different number of neutrons?
Nitrogen and sulfur oxides form what type of rain?
Polyester fabric's resistance to wrinkling comes from the cross-linking of what?
What term refers to the sequence of community and ecosystem changes after a disturbance?
What is the network of fibers that organizes structures and activities in the cell called?
Decreasing the volume of a gas and keeping everything else the same will cause its pressure to change in what way?
What evolutionary strategy enables substantial activity during sleep for some animals?
The cells of the blastocyst form an inner cell mass called the what?
How do all musical instruments create sound?
What system disorders include kidney stones, kidney failure, and urinary tract infections?
What type of respiration has the advantage of releasing more energy?
Major climate types are based on what two things?
When amino acids bind together, they form a long chain called what, which is an essential component of protein?
What type of cells does meiosis produce?
Organisms that lack both a nucleus and membrane-bound organelles are known as what, in general?
What happens to most of the energy in a trophic level as it passes to the next higher level?
What is the name for a specific amount of solute that can dissolve in a given amount of solvent?
What is freshwater below the earth's surface called?
What forms when crystals precipitate out from a liquid?
What do people build to protect areas from floods?
What system of the body is responsible for ultimately ridding it of waste and excess water?
What's it called when there's a sudden flow of mud?
Which zone is located below 200 meters from the surface?
Food chewed evenly during mastication moisten and lubricate the lining of the mouth and this?
Photosynthesis is initiated by what hitting plants?
What is the process of drawing general conclusions based on many pieces of evidence?
Name the fibrous joint in which two parallel bones are united to each other by fibrous connective tissue.
What's the best way humans can conserve water?
Although fewer in number than chemical synapses, what type of synapses are found in all nervous systems and play important and unique roles?
What consists of a nitrogen atom bonded to some combination of carbons and hydrogens?
When do hammerhead sharks usually hunt?
What types of glands do only female mammals have?
What is the unit used to measure air pressure?
In which stage does the chromatin condense into chromosomes?
What is the upper-most atmosphere known as?
Reproduction that doesn't involve a male gamete is also known as what?
What is the term for an electronic component that consists of many other electronic components?
What is another term for life science?
What type of cartilage contains no collagen?
In prokaryotes, what are the regions called that repressors bind to?
What instrument has a resolution many times greater than a light microscope, and can be used to see the details on the outside of a cell?
The temperature at which the individual ions have enough kinetic energy to overcome the attractive forces that hold them in place is called?
What play several important roles in the human body?
What is a measure that has both size and direction?
What is to blame for water’s boiling point (100°c) being higher than the boiling points of similar substances?
Carbonic acid decomposes easily at room temperature into carbon dioxide and what else?
What form when a single atom gains or loses electrons?
In earthworms, the skin serves as what type of organ?
Catalytic converters used on motor vehicles break down pollutants in what, yielding non-toxic compounds?
Processing of filtrate in the proximal tubule helps maintain what level in body fluid?
What helps represent age-sex structure of the population?
Large viruses began as what type of cells inside bigger host cells?
How can you calculate the density of matter?
Frogs and toads have long back legs which are specialized for what action?
Different regions of the cerebral cortex can be associated with particular functions, a concept known as what?
What is the term for a change in the inherited traits of organisms over time?
What type of diseases do antibiotics not affect?
Which system carries out long-distance transport of materials between the root and shoot systems?
How do reptiles typically reproduce?
All organisms must adapt to what in order to survive?
Biochemical compounds that include sugars, starches, and cellulose are examples of what?
What emerges from an insect egg?
What can protons and neutrons be broken down into?
What is the name of the stage of life when a child becomes sexually mature?
What part of the brain is divided from front to back into the left and right hemispheres?
Because their cells are arranged in bundles, the appearance of skeletal and cardiac muscles is described as what?
What resource is considered nonrewable for human purposes, because it takes so long to form and is depleted by farming and other activities?
What in orange juice makes it taste sour?
What scientist created the modern system for classifying organisms?
What will be the effect to an organism if its homeostasis is not maintained?
Since warmer molecules have more energy, they are more what?
If only blue light strikes green leaves what happens to it?
Which type of animal creates useful substances such as honey, wax, lacquer, and silk?
Stringed instruments can help show the relationship between tension and what in strings?
Ectotherms undergo a variety of changes at the cellular level to acclimatize to shifts in what?
Convex lenses are thicker in the middle than at the edges so they cause rays of light to converge, or meet, at a point called what?
What are magnesium carbonate, aluminum hydroxide, and sodium bicarbonate commonly used as?
What type of taste do bases normally have?
Which body part helps roundworm prevent their body from expanding?
The maintenance of constant conditions in the body is also known as what?
What is the term for tough protein fibers that connects bones to each other?
What is the study of macroscopic properties, atomic properties, and phenomena in chemical systems?
Bones, cartilage, and ligaments make up what anatomical system?
What is the first part of the large intestine called?
What occurs when nature reclaims areas formerly occupied by life?
To solubilize the fats so that they can be absorbed, what organ secretes a fluid called bile into the small intestine?
When the hemoglobin loses its oxygen, it changes to what color?
How are weather patterns formed?
Boyle discovered that what property of a gas is inversely proportional to its volume?
What amazing machines smash particles that are smaller than atoms into each other head-on?
The interaction of what opposite factors describe a biome and ecosystem?
What is caused by differences in density at the top and bottom of the ocean?
What is the layer of tissue between the body and shell called?
Well suited to absorb water and dissolved minerals from the soil, thin-walled dermal cells and tiny hairs cover what basic plant structures?
What is the major artery of the body, taking oxygenated blood to the organs and muscles of the body?
What do you call a growing mass of cancerous cells that pushes into nearby tissues?
What is the major intracellular cation?
The enzyme pepsin plays an important role in the digestion of proteins by breaking down intact protein to what short-chain amino acids?
What remains a constant of radioactive substance over time?
Terrestrial ecosystems, also known for their diversity, are grouped into large categories called what?
High explosives create shock waves that exceed the speed of sound, a phenomenon that goes by what term?
What do you call a structure composed of two or more types of tissues that work together to do a specific task?
Who proposed the theory of evolution by natural selection?
Each specific polypeptide has a unique linear sequence of which acids?
A frameshift mutation is a deletion or insertion of one or more of what that changes the reading frame of the base sequence?
What is an area of land called that is wet for all or part of the year?
Surface waters are heated by the radiation from?
What are arteries, veins, and capillaries examples of?
Biochemical reactions of metabolism include what two general categories?
Compounds with aluminum and silicon are commonly found in the clay fractions of soils derived from what?
What organ has four major regions: the cerebrum, the diencephalon, the stem, and the cerebellum?
What can refer to a rope in a particular shape and a genetic structure involved in splicing?
What is the ratio of the mass of an object to its volume?
What is the most common type of anemia?
What stimulates milk production in mammals?
During telophase , the chromosomes begin to uncoil and form what?
The science dealing with the study of the atmosphere is known as what?
On what basis are the eras of the phanerozoic eon separated?
What type of response is generated when a stimulus is received by the nervous system?
Fluid in the pseudocoelom serves as a hydrostatic what?
How will global warming eliminate some islands and reduce the area of others?
What is the term for the secretion of saliva?
What is the most common sti in the u.s.?
What plant structures are the main avenues by which water evaporates from the sporophyte?
Decomposers break down dead organisms into nutrients and what?
What is the term for the use of technology to treat genetic disorders or change organisms so they are more useful to people?
What science specialty, with a set of like-named scientific laws, refers to the study of energy and energy transfer involving physical matter?
What type of tissue makes up the brain and the nerves that connect the brain to all parts of the body?
Periodic refers to something that does what?
Blood is pumped from the heart, pushing open which valves?
What term refers to a list of the elements that will replace the ones below them in single-replacement reactions?
What cause many human diseases by killing host cells or disturbing their homeostasis?
What two types of digestive systems do invertebrates have?
What are ectothermic vertebrates that divide their time between freshwater and terrestrial habitats?
During exercise, the rate of blood returning to the heart does this?
What is the pattern of spacing among individuals within the boundaries of the population?
What level is a feeding position in a food chain or web?
What do most of the noble gas elements have in common?
What are the organisms that live in extreme conditions known as?
Collision frequency is greater for what category of catalysts, which also tend to be more sensitive to temperature and more 'expensive'?
What does the pull of the moon's gravity on earth cause?
A water molecule forms when oxygen (o) and _______  atoms react and are held together by covalent bonds?
What force makes objects seem lighter in water?
What  is the process by which the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell divides?
Iceland is made up of a series of?
What type of organism does not need oxygen for growth and dies in its presence?
What is the name of specialized organs that filter the lymph by percolation through a maze of connective tissue filled with white blood cells?
What are hydrocarbons most important use?
What protects tissues of the central nervous system from changes in ph?
The air pressure is about 80% that of ________ pressure at sea level.
Vertebrates - including fish, amphibians, reptiles, birds, and mammals - belong to what phylum?
In our wildflower population, the pool of what remains constant from one generation to the next?
When a membrane uses energy to move a substance across it, what kind of transport is this?
An electrostatic attraction between two ions that have exchanged what?
During what part of a person's development are they generally at their physical peak?
What type of movement involves sluggish segmentation, primarily in the transverse and descending colons?
Vertebrates evolved from primitive forms of which creature?
What does the aqueous fluid between the chloroplast membrane and the grana known as?
When a hypothesis is repeatedly confirmed, what can it then become?
Using a hammer to remove a nail changes both the direction and strength of the what?
Through which process are plants able to make their own food?
What kind of waves are sound waves?
The protein without the prosthetic group is known as the what?
What connections allow heterocysts to transport fixed nitrogen to neighboring cells and to receive carbohydrates?
The classes anthozoa, scyphozoa, cubozoa, and hydrozoa make up what phylum?
Where does waste enter the large intestine from?
What do different soil horizons show different amounts of?
What is the main source of energy for your body?
What are thin, very small tail-like projections that extend outward from the cell body that allow protists to move?
Earthquakes, which may occur on california’s abundant faults, can also trigger what?
In which way do particles of water move in deep water?
What is the name of the study of heat engines?
Mechanical waves can only trave through what?
If you examine eyeglasses for nearsighted people, you will find the lenses are thinnest in the center and of what shape?
What do you call air flowing over earth’s surface?
What three particles make up most atoms?
How can one dimensional vectors be added?
What is caused by the reaction of nonmetal oxides with water in the atmosphere?
Into how many basic regions can the aquatic biome be broken down?
The top of the saturated rock layer is called what?
Which field studies how to tailor medical treatments to our genetic profiles?
Research that focuses on understanding basic properties and processes without concern for the usefulness of this understanding is known as what kind of research?
Cells of what category of organisms can be organized at the level of cells, tissues, organs, and organ systems?
What property of materials describes the ease in which they can be molded into thin sheets?
What do you call materials that have low resistance to electric current?
What is the term for the transfer of heat by a current?
Arterioles receive blood from arteries, which are vessels with a much larger lumen. as their own lumen averages just 30 micrometers or less, arterioles are critical in slowing down—or resisting—blood flow. the arterioles can also constrict or dilate, which varies their what?
What is the circular center of a hurricane better known as?
Are most glaciers currently growing or shrinking?
What kind of model - which includes producers, consumers and decomposers - shows the interactions between organisms across trophic levels?
The multifidus muscle of the lumbar region helps extend and laterally flex this?
What does k stand for on the periodic table?
Beta decay occurs when a nucleus has too few of what relative to protons?
Trees have woody stems covered with what?
What prevents an object from moving in a straight line at a constant speed?
The effect of acetylcholine in heart muscle is inhibitory rather than what?
What is the division of the cytoplasm in eukaryotic cells?
The white of an egg becomes opaque when cooked because what are insoluble and solidify?
What kind of plants lack xylem or phloem to transport nutrients, water, and food?
Exemplified by baring teeth, what type of displays are common in the animal kingdom, and sometimes serve as a 'bluff'?
The preferred phase a substance adopts can change with temperature. at low temperatures, most substances are solids (only helium is predicted to be a liquid at absolute zero). as the temperature increases, those substances with very weak intermolecular forces become gases directly in a process called this?
What pigment do slow fibers contain?
What are clathrin, copi and copii types of?
What is the name for the force that attracts water molecules to other polar substances?
All alkaline earth metals have similar properties because they all have two what?
A solenoid or coil wrapped around iron or certain other metals can form what kind of magnet?
Is the yolk more or less concentrated toward the animal pole?
What are the location where bones come together?
What term denotes lower levels of exposure, for instance to radiation, over a longer period of time?
What causes water molecules to stay close to each other?
What is the main cause of recent global warming?
In solids, particles can't overcome the force of attraction between them because they lack what?
What are the organelles where the process of photosynthesis takes place in plants and algae.
What process occurs when two alleles are expressed equally in the phenotype of the heterozygote?
Magnetic poles always occur in pairs - what are the names of each pole?
Anemia is a disease that affects what?
The end of a pine tree branch bears the male cones that produce what?
What is the material inside the cell membrane called?
The energy stored in the organic molecules of food ultimately comes from where?
Sulfur dioxide produced by burning coal is the leading cause of what deadly phenomenon?
When an eagle, a land eater, goes and gets fish from the sea, as well, its called?
Where the axon emerges from the cell body, there is a special region referred to as the what?
The specialized study of the motion of objects that are atomic/subatomic in size is called what?
Circadian rhythms and migration are examples of which behaviors?
Acids are classified based on their what?
What type of muscle enables the body to move?
What results when volcanic ash encircles the globe, blocking the sun and lowering the temperature of the entire planet?
Oxygen and glucose are both reactants in the process of
Why does the moon evolve around the earth rather than the sun?
What is an area in a body of water where nothing grows because there is too little oxygen known as?
Most air pollutants can be traced to what source ?
A species become separated and becomes two separate species. what can they not do anymore?
A phase diagram plots pressure and what else?
What occurs when the immune system reacts to substances in food as though they were harmful “foreign invaders"?
Recycling items actually takes more energy than what other conservation methods that start with "r"?
What science studies chemical processes that are found in living things?
Nonmetals typically lack what capability, because they hold onto their electrons?
What is the process called in which populations of organisms change over time?
An environment reaches its carrying capacity when the number of individual births in it equal the number of what else?
Pulmonary and systemic circulation loops are part of what organ system?
What are materials that cannot conduct thermal energy efficiently known as?
The temporomandibular joint (tmj) is the joint that allows for opening (mandibular depression) and closing (mandibular elevation) of this?
What gas consisting of three oxygen atoms is found largely in the stratosphere?
Esters can be formed by heating carboxylic acids and alcohols in the presence of?
Glucose that remains in the filtrate of what organ is excreted?
What part of a plant helps it reproduce by being ejected from flowers and fruits?
Energy contents of foods are often expressed in what?
The plasma membranes of cells that specialize in absorption are folded into fingerlike projections called what?
Sweating and panting are methods mammals use for what purpose?
A closed loop through which a current can flow is called what?
Unsaturated hydrocarbons with at least one triple bond are known as?
What two types of organism make up a lichen?
The cell regulates most molecules that pass through what cell structure?
What are groups of skeletal muscle fibers wrapped in?
Density is considered what type of property, because it does not depend on the amount of material present in the sample?
Prior to binding to a hormone, where are steroid hormone receptors located?
Which scale measures acids and bases and has 7 as a neutral value?
What do we call people who are trained to make specific dietary recommendations to address particular issues relating to health?
An artery is a blood vessel that conducts blood away from the what?
The small amount of energy input necessary for all chemical reactions to occur is called what?
What linear polymer of glucose units is found in plants and serves a structural purpose?
When the temperature of water is increased after being used in cooling, it is this form of pollution?
Which biological system is responsible for getting rid of chemical waste and water?
What part of the body protects the brain?
Ammonium nitrate and ammonium sulfate are used in fertilizers as a source of what?
What kind of light bulb has a tungsten filament?
What is the name for the circle that runs north to south and passes through greenwich, england?
What map coordinates correspond to similar climate zones and life zones?
In myasthenia gravis, antibodies bind to and block certain receptors on muscle cells, preventing what?
What helps cells reduce their reaction to excessive hormone levels?
Smog is an example of the formation of what kind of pollutant, which occurs when primary pollutants undergo chemical reactions after they are released?
What occurs when a sperm and an egg fuse?
How many bases does dna have in total?
Compound machines tend to have a greater mechanical advantage than what other machines?
Name the missing type of light: ultraviolet, infrared, ___________.
When a binary acid only has one acidic hydrogen it is known as what?
Seedless nonvascular plants are small. the dominant stage of the life cycle is the gametophyte. without a vascular system and roots, they absorb water and nutrients through all of their exposed surfaces. there are three main groups: the liverworts, the hornworts, and these?
What is a protein containing four subunits that transports oxygen throughout the body?
Molecules that are in continuous motion, travelling in straight lines and changing comprise what state of matter?
The recombination frequency is the percentage of recombinant flies in the total pool of what?
Nuclear fusion is a reaction in which two nuclei are combined to form a larger nucleus. it releases energy when light nuclei are fused to form medium-mass nuclei. • fusion is the source of energy in what?
What are polymers of amino acids called?
Currently, the only known stable systems undergoing fusion are what?
Displacement is the separation between a beginning position and what other place?
Cellular respiration that proceeds in the absence of oxygen is called what?
What is made in the liver and excreted in urine?
Name two differences between a larval staged frog and an adult frog.
What kind of energy can both cause cancer and help in detecting and treating it?
What was probably the earliest way of making atp from glucose?
What is the process in which a substance naturally moves from an area of higher to lower concentration called?
What is the internal ph of most living cells?
What law states whenever one body exerts a force on a second body, the first body experiences a force that is equal in magnitude and opposite in direction to the force that the first body exerts?
What does the bicoid protein activate?
How do roundworms reproduce?
Intraspecific competition occurs between members of the same what?
What is the term for the long-time average of weather?
What is the most common form of ocean life?
What is the name of the chart that makes it easy to find the possible genotypes in offspring of two parents?
What term is used to describe the process of finding the location of genes on each chromosome?
What is a threat against civilized people called?
What are the most common forms of lasers today made of?
A phospholipid bilayer is made up of two layers of phospholipids, in which hydrophobic fatty acids are in the middle of the what?
The transfer of energy by electromagnetic waves is called what?
The noble gases are unreactive because of their?
Some birds, such as gulls and terns and other waterfowl have what type of feet used for swimming or floating?
Bones are considered organs because they contain what, specifically?
Plants take in carbon dioxide and give off what?
For a scientific theory to be valid, in what way should it be verified?
For plants, the amount of water, sunlight, nutrients, and space to grow are the important resources, whereas in animals, important resources include food, water, shelter, nesting space, and this?
Which is the main organ of the respiratory system?
Why is runoff from artificial fertilizer harmful to the chesapeake bay ecosystem?
What system do trees need to transport nutrients?
Food allergies, ulcers, and heartburn all affect what organ system?
Like ammonia, hydrazine is both a brønsted base and which other base?
What is the layman's term for a state in which external stimuli are received but not consciously perceived?
What are the tiny, negatively charged particles in an atom that move around the positive nucleus at the center?
Enzymes, antibodies, and muscle fiber are all types of what?
What are formed by the loss of one or two electrons from an element?
Betelgeuse is an example of what "colorful" stage in the life of very massive stars?
What single word can be defined as the ability to cause change in matter and the ability to do work?
Wearing clothes that trap air next to your body on a cold day helps you retain what type of energy?
How many steps are involved in blood clotting?
What type of pressure is the amount of force that is exerted by gases in the air surrounding any given surface?
What series of reactions is common to fermentation and cellular respiration?
In which ways may sponges reproduce?
What do barnacles anchor to?
Organic compounds produced by what process provide the energy and building material for ecosystems?
As you increase the temperature of a liquid what happens to the solubility of a solute?
The relative sizes of the atoms show several trends with regard to what visual method of organization?
Toward the end of pregnancy, the synthesis of oxytocin receptors in what reproductive organ increases?
If an animal eats large pieces of food it is known as a?
What are the two vibrating fields that electromagnetic waves consist of?
What is the process by which plants and animals increase in size?
How do endocrine hormones travel throughout the body?
The post-anal tail is at the end of the organism opposite what?
What is the term for the moles of solute divided by the kilograms of solvent?
Active transport moves substances from an area of lower concentration to an area of?
How does the skin eliminates excess water and salts?
Organophosphates typically interfere with nerve signal transmission by inhibiting the enzymes that degrade what?
What is the horizontal distance between two waves, measured at a common point (crest to crest or trough to trough), called?
Steroid hormones, such as cortisol and ecdysteroid, are lipids that contain four fused what?
The solubility of gases, liquids, and solids are affected by changes in what?
Only animals have muscle tissue and what other type of tissue?
What type of matter transmits light but scatters the light as it passes through?
During an earthquake, the ground shakes as stored up energy is released from what?
Tunnel vision involves the loss of what visual fields?
Systemic mycoses spread to internal organs, most commonly entering the body through this?
The three features that are unique to the large intestine are the teniae coli, haustra, and what?
Most living things build proteins from the same 20 different what?
What reaction, along with photosynthesis, provides energy to the vast majority of living things?
Some animals increase body fat in winter to stay?
Coal, oil, and natural gas are examples of what, which forms when organic matter is under pressure for millions of years?
Protists play critically important ecological roles as producers and, on the other end of food webs, as what?
Where do physical laws govern energy flow and chemical cycling?
The distribution of thermal speeds depends strongly on temperature. as temperature increases, the speeds are shifted to higher values and the distribution is what?
Carbohydrates, proteins, lipids, and nucleic acids are the four classes of what type of compounds?
What is the most important factor in soil formation?
What is the outer layer of cells in a root called?
What type of feeders are the largest sharks and rays?
Chemical digestion couldn't take place without the help of what?
Where would you find three tiny bones called the hammer, anvil, and stirrup?
Energy resources can be put into two categories — renewable or?
Even the age of earth has been estimated on the basis of what?
In the primary response to infection, what are secreted first from plasma cells?
A hookworm is classified as what type of organism?
A pigment within plant cells which absorbs light is called?
Where does slime mold typically live?
Genital warts is an sti caused by what?
What do ectotherms use to regulate body temperature?
What event occurred at the close of the precambrian era?
A balanced equation has an equal number of what on each side?
Pure substances have a constant composition and can only be changed by what?
Earthquakes occur most often at which natural feature?
How many atmospheric circulation cells are there?
Proper chemical formulas for ionic compounds balance the total positive charge with what?
Which process helps microorganisms make food with chemicals pouring out of deep-sea vents?
What is a combination of two or more substances in any proportion called?
Where is the youngest seafloor located?
What kind of mixture consists of two or more phases, exemplified when a combination of oil and water forms layers?
The values of strangeness assigned to various particles are based on what?
Together, the muscular and skeletal organs are known as what?
What do factories and power plants use to remove particulates and waste gases from exhaust before releasing it?
Humans typically have how many pairs of chromosomes?
Correlation is different from what term that refers to the factor that is producing the effect?
What organelles do animal cells use to convert food into energy?
Where does egg production happen?
What can be used to estimate the energy change of a chemical reaction?
Destructive interference occurs when two identical waves are superimposed exactly out of phase. a standing wave is one in which two waves superimpose to produce a wave that varies in amplitude but does not do this?
What is the layer outside the cell wall in a prokaryote?
What delivers natural gas from rock that might not otherwise be obtainable?
Name the white blood cells that can squeeze through capillary walls and swallow particles.
Permanent dipole-dipole interactions are found in what kind of molecules?
The energy released during an earthquake is called what?
Many replication forks develop along a what?
What is the term for the strength of an acid or base?
A bog is a type of ____
In projectile motion, the horizontal displacement of an object is called its what?
An oil drop is stationary when what downward force exactly equals the upward electrical force on the drop?
The secretion of what may influence the body’s circadian rhythms?
Photosynthesis takes the energy of sunlight and combines water and carbon dioxide to produce sugar and oxygen as this?
Purkinje fibers have a fast inherent what?
What process affecting genes or chromosomes causes genetic disorders?
What type of engine burns fuel to heat water and produce steam?
Oncogenesis is one name for the process where normal cells turn into what?
Characteristics of an organism are passed from one generation to the next through what?
Reactants are substances that start what?
What are cyclic compounds which have an element other than carbon atoms in the ring?
Surviving megaspores develop into what?
Stoichiometry is concerned with the reactants and the products in chemical what?
What do you call the angle at which waves strike a wall?
Nitrogen & sulfur oxide combine with rain to form what?
The nitrogenous bases found in nucleotides are classified as pyrimidines or what?
Instead of heat, organisms use what to speed up reactions?
What term in science describes not just a guess, but a well-formed set of explanations for a phenomenon?
Although helper t cells do not destroy infected or damaged body cells, they are still necessary for what?
The seven unique crystal types are defined by what parts of themselves (parts that intersect at various angles)?
In their processes of gene expression, archael cells show similarties to both bacterial cells and which other type of cell?
What term refers to the amount of solute that can dissolve in a given amount of solvent at a given temperature?
Although quite different, beryllium, magnesium, calcium, strontium, barium, and radium are all classified as what type of metals?
What predatory mammal is the fastest land animal on earth?
Why did woolly mammoths began to go extinct thousands of years ago?
What is a developing baby called in the very early stages?
What is released when an atom gains valence electrons and forms a negative ion?
What is the name of matter that mechanical wave energy can only travel through?
What is able to occur because no surface is perfectly smooth?
What determines the reactivity of an atom?
What is the fusing of two or more smaller nuclei to form a single, larger nucleus?
What part of the plant absorbs water?
What is the term for the attraction between oppositely charged atoms or ions?
What are the outer planets of the solar system made of?
Allergy symptoms can be treated with medications such as?
What is considered to be the most common intrusive igneous rock?
Which type of carbohydrate is glucose?
What obstructs people from seeing the milky way at night?
The north end of a compass needle points toward which of earth's magnetic poles?
Deer, rabbits and mice are an example of what link between producers and other consumers?
What is the name of the process of creating offspring from just one individual animal?
Strength, the ability of a muscle to use force during a contraction, differs from what term meaning the ability of a muscle to continue to contract over time without getting tired?
What disease-causing acellular entities containing either dna or rna replicate using the replication proteins of a host cell?
What type of virus is the flu caused by?
Almost all leaves are specialized for what process?
Some inhibitor molecules bind to enzymes in a location where their binding induces a conformational change that reduces the affinity of the enzyme for its substrate. this type of inhibition is called allosteric what?
During which process does carbon dioxide exit the cells, enter the bloodstream, travel back to the lungs, and get expired out of the body?
Exotic species, also known as invasive or non-native species often cause _______ when introduced to new environments.
What is formed when light rays diverge behind a lens?
An equipotential line is a line along which the electric potential is wht?
Keratin is an intracellular fibrous protein that gives hair, nails, and skin their hardness and this?
The insect reaches full size, acquires wings, and becomes sexually mature after what final stage?
Body movements help circulate the hemolymph by periodically squeezing what?
What is the name of the effect that causes air masses to move on a diagonal?
Peristalsis is necessary for what basic bodily function?
Radioactive isotopes have the same chemical properties as stable isotopes of the same element. still, how is radioactive isotope different from stable isotopes?
What can be described in terms of physical properties and chemical properties as well as its defining states?
Wetlands are extremely important as an ecosystem and as a filter for what?
Amphibians generally rely heavily on their moist skin for what with the environment?
A change in species over time is known as?
What type of event nearly always occurs at plate boundaries?
Each f atom has one bonding pair and three lone pairs of what?
The embryo sac consists of only a few cells, one of which is the what?
What type of organisms collect the energy from the sun and turn it into organic compounds?
Force is a vector because it has what two things?
What type of rock makes up most of the earth?
The seven bones of the ankle are called the what?
What is the name for the amount of energy that is required in order to begin a chemical reaction?
Presence or absence of what feature distinguishes vertebrates from invertebrates?
All the bones of the skull, except for the mandible, are joined to each other by a fibrous joint called what?
What do we use to keep track of electric potential energy?
Ozone loss increases the amount of what high-energy radiation that strikes earth?
What are two simple and common types of capacitor connections?
What is the last step in scientific investigation?
Nematodes have an alimentary canal, but lack what?
What instrument is used to make objects in space appear closer?
Which law predicts increasing entropy based on living systems?
An amine is an organic compound that can be considered to be a derivative of what?
The hormones epinephrine and norepinephrine are associated with what rhyming mechanism?
Matter is composed of exceedingly small particles called what?
Gases have no definite shape or what?
Elements have orbitals that are filled with what?
Most protein antigens require signals from helper t cells (th2) to proceed to make what?
What is caused by the buildup of stress in the rocks?
Forty percent of your body mass is made up of what?
Water is composed of which two elements?
A  polar covalent bond is a covalent bond between different atoms that attract the shared electrons by different amounts and cause an imbalance of what ?
What two things are excess proteins converted into?
What is an individual living creature called?
What kind of a reaction if peptide bond formation?
What are the elements of group 17 (fluorine, chlorine, bromine, iodine, and astatine) called?
What is the term for growing towards gravity?
What does our solar system orbit over the course of hundreds of millions of years?
What do inherited immunodeficiencies arise from?
What kinds of winds can be found in belts that span the entire circumference of the earth?
Touching, coughing, or sneezing are examples of directly spreading what microorganisms, which cause diseases like tetanus?
Which blood pressure is highest when the heart contracts during ventricular systole?
All the members of a species that live in the same area form a what?
New species may be created by natural selection and one other way. what is the other way?
What type of illness is influenza?
In which process do paired chromosomes normally separate from each other?
About how many years ago did our solar system begin?
What is the energy change called when a neutral atom gains an electron?
What kind of interference characteristics does matter have compared to any wave?
Which can cause serious metabolic disorders, too little or too much thyroid hormone in the blood?
How many colors of light can the human eye detect?
The length of a linear accelerator and the size of the d-shaped electrodes in a cyclotron severely limit the kinetic energy that particles can attain in these devices. these limitations can be overcome by using one of these?
The mammalian sense of touch also relies on mechanoreceptors that are the dendrites of sensory?
What is the largest known animal?
Polymers can disassemble by the reverse process called what?
Purple loosestrife is a european wildflower that was introduced to which continent in the 1800's?
The male gametangium that produces sperm is also called what?
What part is written first when naming an ionic compound?
How does adding salt to water affect the boiling point?
What mineral is used in jewelry because of its striking greenish-blue color?
Ionic bonds are formed between which ions?
What causes most ocean waves?
What work by lowering the activation energy of reactions and are needed to speed up chemical reactions in organisms?
Exon skipping is an example of what type of splicing?
What is the term for the distance between any two corresponding points on adjacent waves?
Typically, what feature of an angiosperm has four main parts known as the calyx, corolla, androecium, and gynoecium?
8each cell-surface receptor has three main components: an external ligand-binding domain, a hydrophobic membrane spanning region, and a(n) what domain inside the cell?
Special cell in the epidermis of the skin that produces the brown pigment called what?
What are the most abundant source of energy found in most foods?
What is considered to not be a form of precipitation?
Both the initiation and inhibition of cell division are triggered by events external to the cell when it is about to begin which process?
The binding of an antigen receptor to an epitope initiates events that activate the?
Science works hand in hand with what for the advancement of both?
Which part of the brain is responsible for working memory?
What are bundles of collecting ducts that transport urine made by nephrons to the calyces of the kidney for excretion?
What do snakes use to smell things?
Cardiac muscle normally has what kind of oxygen-using metabolism?
Burning fossil fuels releases what into the atmosphere?
Cnidarians are an ancient phylum of what?
What theory states that both energy and matter have characteristics of waves under some conditions and characteristics of particles under other conditions?
At which location is the earth hottest?
What is process of producing eggs in the ovary called?
What protein is hair mostly made of?
What is it called when the vesicle and target membrane fuse?
What is the term for the number of covalent bonds an atom can form?
Momentum can be expressed as the product of mass and what else?
A carbon atom with 6 protons and 8 neutrons is more specifically known as?
Who was the first person known to use a telescope to study the sky?
What kind of decay is electron capture a type of?
What is the result of a reaction between sulfur trioxide and water?
Fragmentation with subsequent regeneration is a method of what, exhibited by animals such as sea stars?
What happens to atoms during a substitution reaction?
What lines the lungs and helps sweep mucus and pathogens out of the lungs?
Because most gas particles in the atmosphere are concentrated close to earth's surface, air pressure is greatest where?
Control rods containing nuclides that very strongly absorb neutrons are used to adjust what?
All radioactive nuclides emit high-energy particles or what?
What process is the synthesis of glucose from pyruvate, lactate and glycerol?
What is the creation of a new species called?
What do humans use to make observations?
The human penis contains the urethra, as well as how many cylinders of spongy erectile tissue?
When water freezes, it expands in volume as what is formed?
What is a substance or object that absorbs and dissipates heat but does not experience a corresponding increase in temperature?
Vesicles can be classified by their contents and what else?
The main function of this organ is to filter the blood and remove unwanted red blood cells?
The brain case consists of eight bones which include the paired parietal and temporal bones, plus the unpaired frontal, occipital, sphenoid, and which other bone?
What can have complex effects on soil nutrient concentrations?
Rems, rads, and curies are all used to measure what?
What governs motions of stars, galaxies and other celestial objects orbiting one another?
The numbers and types of species living in what groups generally change through time, a process called ecological succession?
Claw hammers and pulleys are examples of simple machines that do what to the direction of force applied by the user?
A circular coral reef could indicate the earlier existence of what?
Many fungi protect themselves from parasites and predators by producing what?
Acid rain falling in lakes can kill aquatic organisms by lowering what?
What do plant and fungi cells have that animal cells lack?
Which type of energy holds atoms together?
What type of energy is the energy stored in an object due to its position?
What is the amount of product that may be produced by a reaction under specified conditions called?
Sometimes referred to as air, what do we call the mixture of gases that surrounds the planet?
What is another term for seed plants?
Kinetic theory is the atomistic description of what as well as liquids and solids?
Though it can change states, and it often does, what cannot be created or destroyed?
What are the long carbon chains that make up lipids?
As the anterior end of the neural tube starts to develop into the brain, it undergoes a couple of enlargements; the result is the production of these?
What makes the sun glow brightly?
Lens faces can generally either be concave, or what, which is the opposite of concave?
Part of the fossil record, stromatolites belong to what rock group and are formed when minerals are precipitated out of water by prokaryotes in a microbial mat?
Vinegar is an example of what type of acid?
What system of the body is most involved in the immune response?
The highest level of organization in ecology is known as what?
Food allergies, ulcers, and heartburn are diseases of what system of the body?
Bases turn red litmus paper which color?
What two elements do ribosome consist of?
What is the term for the flow of charge that a voltage source creates?
What happens to a cell's efficiency as it grows in size?
What is responsible not only for cell shape changes but also for cell migration?
What is performed to identify disease-causing genes?
What type of fossils are useful for determining the ages of rock layers?
What type of organisms carry out their life processes through division of labor and have specialized cells that do specific job?
What defines the behavior of a compound?
What collect sunlight on the roof of a house for energy?
The light reactions are the steps of photosynthesis that convert solar energy to what other type of energy?
Water waves act as a mix of longitudinal and what other kind of wave?
What is the name for a fertilized cell that results from the uniting of two gametes?
Caffeine and alcohol are two examples of what type of drug?
By maintaining a relatively constant internal environment even when the external environment changes significantly, an animal achieves what?
What is the sticky, moist substance that covers mucous membranes called?
Most receptors in the dermis are encapsulated by what?
The length of the route between two points is known as what?
How did seismologists originally measure the intensity of an earthquake?
What is the term for the distance that sound waves travel in a given amount of time?
How much of its alleles does a plant pass on when it reproduces sexually?
Using less energy or using energy more efficiently are the basic methods of what?
What will a fertilized ovule develop into?
What type of particles do acids release, by definition?
An alpha particle, which is relatively large and easily stopped by matter, is a type of what?
What does antifreeze do to the boiling point of coolant?
What are rhythmic, involuntary contractions of the reproductive structures?
What happens when oppositely charged regions of neighboring water molecules are attracted to each other?
What occurs when the vapor pressure of a liquid is equal to the atmospheric pressure?
The mitotic spindle is an apparatus of microtubules that controls chromosome movement during what?
Pluto’s orbit is in the kuiper?
What does fluoride in toothpaste help prevent?
The mass of 1 mol of molecules in grams is numerically equivalent to the mass of how many molecules in atomic mass units?
A diagram that represents feeding relationships is also called what?
What is touching a charged object to the earth called?
Branchiopoda are mostly small, freshwater animals that feed on?
What is the name for groups of tens to hundreds of thousands of stars?
Proteins may be defined as compounds of high molar mass consisting largely or entirely of chains of these?
Continental drift and mantle convection are supported by data originating where?
Baroreceptors are specialized stretch receptors located within thin areas of blood vessels and heart chambers that respond to the degree of stretch caused by the presence of this?
What structure forms a barrier between the cytoplasm and the environment outside the cell?
What are waxes made up of?
The biggest drawback of what type of reproduction is lack of genetic variation, since all offspring are identical?
What is the name given to the daily wake/sleep cycle?
Where is the seafloor youngest?
What is the term for the interaction of waves with other waves?
Filter feeders called rotifers collect digestive and excretory wastes in what primitive organ?
What mass of abnormal cells do cancer cells cause?
Ultraviolet light has higher frequencies and shorter wavelengths than visible light, which means it has more what?
What planet has a surface temperature of over 400 degrees celsius, no oxygen, an atomsphere comprised mainly of carbon dioxide and tremendous atmospheric pressure?
Which is the body system that normally fights infections and defends against other causes of disease?
What is used to calculate ejection fraction?
How does a sexually transmitted infection spread?
Stem cells are unspecialized cells that can reproduce themselves via cell division, sometimes after years of inactivity. under certain conditions, they may differentiate into tissue-specific or organ-specific cells with special these?
What is the process of soil dissolving in rain called?
What are all living things on earth formed of?
What is another name for critical speed?
Prokaryotes are much simpler than what in many of their features?
Which two atoms are found in most organic compounds?
How are heat changes in chemical reactions measured?
What is a genetic disorder in which blood fails to clot properly because a normal clotting factor in the blood is lacking?
Fungi that reproduce sexually create what?
A long strip of sand is referred to as what?
Which viruses are being studied for cancer treatments?
Mercury looks a lot like earth's moon. why do you think it does? both have been struck by a lot of what?
What is the smallest particle of an element that still has the properties of that element?
What is the three-dimensional structure of a single polypeptide called?
What term is used to descibe the movement of molecules from an area of high concentration of the molecules to an area with a lower concentration?
A source of what is needed to disturb matter and start a mechanical wave?
Much of the damage from hurricanes may be caused by?
Color blindness, hemophilia and muscular dystrophy are three x-linked what?
An apocrine sweat gland is usually associated with hair follicles in densely hairy areas, such as armpits and genital regions. apocrine sweat glands are larger than eccrine sweat glands and lie deeper in the dermis, sometimes even reaching this?
What is the only way to transfer thermal energy without matter?
When plants are shut off from environmental cues they become?
What part of vertebrates integrates the endocrine and nervous systems?
An individual grows quickly and develops new abilities during infancy and?
Prokaryotes are unicellular organisms that lack organelles surrounded by what?
What part of a plant is the food making factory?
What type of molecules do hydrogen bonds hold together?
The greenhouse effect is associated with what negative phenomenon, blamed mainly on human activity?
What "color" (that is actually not a color at all) is associated with the absence of light?
What science is the study of matter and how it behaves?
What do we call the study of life and living things?
The average global temperature has been rising since the end of what era?
What are animals that eat a prey animal?
What are the only decomposers that can break down tough plant substances, including lignin and cellulose?
What type of carbon compound is methane?
In diffusion, substances tend to move from an area of high concentration to an area of what kind of concentration?
In what kind of state are particles fixed in place relative to one another?
What is defined as the amount of energy needed to increase the temperature of one gram of water by 1°c. one calorie equals 4.184 joules?
About a third of all bacteria in the gut are members of what species?
What form of feedback occurs when an accumulation of an end product slows the process that makes that product?
What is the term for a disease in which the immune system makes an inflammatory response to a harmless antigen?
Why is it easier to move boxes on a wheeled dolly than by sliding them?
What is the protein in red blood cells that transports oxygen in the bloodstream?
Space shuttles are reusable vehicles designed to get astronauts where?
Specialized peroxisomes called glyoxysomes are found in the fat-storing tissues of what?
The nervous system, together with what system, controls all the other organ systems?
What is the physical breakdown of chunks of food into smaller pieces?
Technically, which cells are the only autotrophic parts of the plant?
This is the study of evolutionary history of groups of related organisms?
What does urine leave the body through?
What phase is pure chlorine present as?
When electrons from two atoms are each attracted to the nucleus of the other atom, what type of bond is formed?
Wave cut platforms are level areas formed by what?
Electronegativities are used to determine the polarity of covalent bonds. the polarity of a covalent bond can be judged by determining the difference of the electronegativities of what involved in the covalent bond?
What are the cell walls of fungi made of?
All the water in the open ocean is referred to as what zone, which is further divided by depth?
How many embryonic cell layers do flatworms have?
When gasoline is burned, what pollutant is produced?
What kingdom of organisms is characterized by having sensory organs, movement, and internal digestion?
What is the base numbering system of metric units?
What do fungi lack which makes it impossible for them to use photosynthesis?
Spicules are most conspicuously present in which class?
Most of the food that they bring to their chicks is very rich in what?
Two plates may slide past each other in opposite directions, this is called what?
What term is used to describe elements with unstable nuclei?
What is the third gene of lac operon in addition to lacz and lacy?
The majority of species in the phylum chordata are found in what subphylum, which includes animals ranging from lampreys to mammals?
Why is having grasping hands and feet important for primates?
The rising and sinking of warm and cooler material is called what?
What is the remarkable ring of light around the sun called?
Particles in what state of matter do not experience any force of mutual attraction or repulsion?
What is a type of plant tissue consisting of undifferentiated cells that can continue to divide and differentiate?
What are basic tools of the cell for organizing metabolism, transport, and storage of molecules?
The ileum is the last part of what organ, and is where the bile salts and vitamins are absorbed into blood stream?
Total internal reflections the princicple behind what type of optics?
Which cells at the base of the hair root form the outer root sheath?
What is the term for sediment deposited by a glacier?
Usually done on computers, what do you call sets of equations that take into account many factors to represent a phenomenon?
What is the mode of breathing that occurs at rest and does not require the cognitive thought of the individual?
Rubber is what kind of solid?
What do birds do in mating season?
What exciting and evolving field of physics finds that nature on the smallest scale may have its greatest influence on the large-scale character of the universe?
In genetics, what does it mean when the amount is longer since the amount of time since a species diverged?
Ragweed and poison ivy are common causes of what?
What type of distance is caused by the force you apply to a machine over a given distance?
What is calculated by dividing the mass by the volume of a certain object?
Electric motors transform electrical energy into what other form of energy?
The bicoid maternal effect gene is transcribed in which cells of the mother?
How often an allele occurs in a gene pool relative to the other alleles for that gene is known as _______
If more coils are added to an electromagnet it becomes?
Which trait of particles causes even cold objects to have some thermal energy?
Found in many electric devices, what is a coil of wire wrapped around a bar of iron or other ferromagnetic material?
What is it called when two organisms live close together and form a relationship?
What does fsh help stimulate in the ovaries and sperm in the testes?
The largest phylum of the animal kingdom is what?
During what process is light from the star focused and the star appears to brighten in a characteristic manner?
Much like the processes of dna replication and transcription, translation consists of three main stages: initiation, elongation, and this?
Each hemisphere of the cerebrum consists of four parts, called what?
What is an organic compound that is the primary component of natural gas?
What is raising the temperature of earth’s surface?
What is a measure of randomness or disorder in a system?
What is the distance between two corresponding points of adjacent waves called?
Crossing-over is the exchange of genetic material between which chromosomes?
What is a ridge of sand that extends away from the shore?
Manganin is made up of metals that include copper, manganese and nickel - what do you generally call a metal of this type?
Protons and neutrons are located in which central part of the atom?
Cancer is the result of unchecked cell division caused by a breakdown of the mechanisms that regulate this?
Slabs of continents moving around on earth's surface is called what?
In plants, what structure located above the root cap is where growth in length occurs?
With what does an electromagnetic wave start?
What kind of overdose do eudicots die from?
The particles in a colloid are large enough to scatter light, a phenomenon called what?
What two things limit primary production in aquatic ecosystems?
Vascular and non-vascular are two groups of what kind of organism?
The burning of fossil fuels has increased which effect?
What do you call geographical areas that contain high numbers of endemic species?
What type of climate do most agaves grow in?
What cells secrete signaling molecules that promote sperm production and can control whether germ cells live or die?
Invertebrate chordates use what to filter food out of water?
Because the current is alternating, the magnetic field of the iron core keeps doing what?
When heat moves out of a system, what is the sign of the enthalpy?
What occurs when light bumps into tiny particles of matter and spreads out in all directions?
During unfavorable conditions, mature seeds may enter a period of inactivity or extremely low metabolic activity called what?
Solid coal, liquid petroleum, and liquid natural gas are all types of what?
What everyday beverage commodity is second only to oil in worldwide trade?
Where are ribosomes made?
What prevents loss of water from the body and keeps out microorganisms?
Batteries containing a liquid electrolyte, like those in cars, are referred to as what kind of battery?
Stp, which is important in determining information about gas behavior and properties, stands for standard temperature and what?
Within a particular habitat, what can be characterized by its size or density?
Animals that eat decomposing organic material, such as dung beetles, make the material available to what organisms that break it down further?
Skin that acts as camouflage or secretes chemicals poisonous to predators are successful modification in frogs and salamanders, classed as what in the order anura?
What do you call people who study science and are experts in one or more fields of science?
In budding , organisms reproduce by having new individuals split off from what?
What planet, covered by a thick layer of clouds, looks smooth and featureless through a telescope?
What type of power is generated via underground sources of heat?
Saturn is made mostly of what two elements?
A homogeneous mixture composed of two or more substances is called a what?
What is the term for particles composed of three quarks?
Both glyceraldehyde and glyceric acid are derivatives of biochemical intermediates in metabolism of what?
Instead of insects, crustaceans are the dominant arthropods in what environment?
The scientific method deals with systematic investigation, reproducible results, the formation and testing of hypotheses, and what two categories of reasoning?
What is an example of a predator-prey relationship that helps maintain the balance of organisms in ecosystems?
The 'boy in the bubble' is a classic example of someone suffering what type of disease that can cause opportunistic infections?
What phase does dna replication occur in the cell cycle?
What type of rocks form when magma cools and forms crystals?
What determines the color of a star?
Why do birds build nests?
Flagella, cilia and pseudopods are appendages that protists use for what purpose?
Another interesting phenomenon associated with polarized light is the ability of some crystals to split an unpolarized beam of light into two. such crystals are said to be this?
A mitotic spindle forms from the what?
What is the transfer of thermal energy between objects that have different temperatures?
What is the process in which cells make proteins called?
Living things on the ocean floor are known as?
A double form of what reproductive process is unique to angiosperms?
What is the term for the conversion of a liquid to its vapor below the boiling temperature of the liquid?
What kind of energy conversion is done by a fuel cell?
In which aspect does molality differ from molarity?
What is the mass that is "lost" in fission or fusion actually converted to?
What does a glacier leave behind when it retreats?
What law states that matter cannot be created or destroyed even when it changes?
What are natural sponges made of?
The process in which certain bacteria change nitrogen gas to a form that plants can absorb through their roots is known as what?
What gas is actually a waste product of photosynthesis?
Distinguished by the great red spot, what planet has an upper atmosphere containing ammonia clouds?
What controls what goes in and out of a cell?
If the average binding energy per nucleon overcomes the repulsion, the nucleus stays together and it referred to as what?
What is mollusks complete digestive system called?
Kinetic energy is the energy of what?
Which area in a lake is likely to have more nutrients?
Temperature is a measure of how hot or cold an object is relative to another object, whereas heat is the flow of what energy between objects with different temperatures?
Scientists use seismographs and intersecting circles to determine the location of what?
What happens when iron is exposed to water and oxygen?
What disease is generally caused by mutations in genes that regulate the cell cycle?
Proteins are organic compounds made up of what type of acids?
Speciation is usually due to a single instance of what?
What is the name of the extra layer that prokaryotes have outside the cell wall?
The binary halides are an important subclass of what?
When was construction of the hoover dam completed?
Some plants can produce seeds without fertilization and this method of reproduction is known as what?
What type of chains do unsaturated fatty acids have?
Ribosomes are the site of what process?
Bacteria and archaea that survive under extreme conditions are called?
The production and transport of gametes is performed by what type of organs?
What are atoms of the same element but with different numbers of neutrons called?
Active transport mechanisms require the use of the cell’s energy, usually in the form of what?
What kind of energy can move through glass much better than through paper?
What forms when one substance dissolves into another?
What transition occurs as heat is added or removed from a substance?
What is the predicted year that as many as half of all remaining species could go extinct?
Which scientist developed the theory of evolution and detailed it in the book origin of species?
Insects are the only invertebrates that can do what?
What basic structures, found in animals and plants, are organized into tissues, organs, and organ systems?
What do we call the phase of nuclear division, in which one nucleus divides and becomes two nuclei?
In abalones and limpets, what is conical, but somewhat flattened?
What are the physical properties of water and carbon dioxide affected by?
Which one of newton's laws describes the direct relationship between force and acceleration?
The process by which creatures regulate body temperature from the outside through behavioral changes is known as what?
Because of moving charged particles in its outer core, earth is what?
Color, taste, and melting point are examples of what kind of properties?
Amorphous selenium is a photosensitive what?
When the rate of condensation becomes equal to the rate of vaporization, the vapor in the container is then said to be in what with the liquid?
What are the sources of sexual spores in a basidiocarp?
Amylose and amylopectin are the two most common components of naturally occurring what?
Reactive, high polarized substances made of carbon bonded to one carbon atom and one hydrogen atom are known as what?
Relative humidity is related to the partial pressure of what in the air?
What are the two stages in the life cycle of a jellyfish?
What part of the cell holds cell organelles in place within the cytoplasm?
What is the name for the process of insects transforming from a young insect to an adult?
Over time, heavy metals build up in the tissues of organisms by what process?
Changes to what that delete, disrupt, or rearrange many loci at once are usually harmful?
The ability of a material to emit various wavelengths of light is similarly related to its?
Divergent plate boundaries rift what landforms apart, leading to the formation of a new ocean between them?
What mineral is stored and is maintained at normal levels in blood by the skeletal system?
What type of diseases are diseases that are caused by choices that people make in their daily lives?
A barometer is a device that measures this?
What is the term for getting the same results when an experiment is repeated, which implies the results are valid?
Helices, spheres, and rods are examples of what distinguishing property of prokaryotic cells?
What is the term for the change in momentum vector?
Larger molecules can have many, many of what that serve to keep the molecule together?
What makes nobel gases unreactive?
Which joint allows humans to sit, stand, and pivot?
What type of power is generated by splitting uranium atoms?
At any given temperature, not all of the particles of a sample of matter have the same energy of what type?
Individual particles of a substance in what state are in fixed positions with respect to each other because there is not enough thermal energy to overcome the intermolecular interactions between the particles?
What kind of feeders are sponges?
It is the variety of what that gives rise to the incredible variation of protein structure and function?
What do plant viruses have that protect their cells?
What type of isotope can be used to treat diseases like cancer?
What helps by releasing chemicals that control other lymphocytes?
What is the density needed to just halt universal expansion called?
In a nuclear power plant, what typically spins in order to produce electricity?
How do roots and stems grow?
What are organic molecules that consist of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen called?
The diploid sporophyte produces haploid spores by what process?
What type of covalent bond is a covalent bond in which the bonding electrons are shared equally between the two atoms?
What forms a barrier between the cytoplasm and the environment outside the cell?
Sponges are part of what phylum, which gets its name from the latin for "having pores"?
Comets that have periods of 200 years or less are knows as what-period comets?
The integumentary system helps regulate body temperature through its tight association with what system involved in our fight-or-flight responses?
What in the air allows us to hear sound?
What do you call the process in which a community changes through time?
What is the maximum horizontal distance traveled by a projectile?
The axon is a long extension of the cell body that transmits what to other cells?
Fungi are now classified as their own kingdom. what kingdom were they previously a part of?
What is the term for small streams?
A comparison of the human arm with a bat's wing demonstrates what principle of biology?
What converters are used on motor vehicles to break down pollutants in exhaust to non-toxic compounds?
If a substance does not release molecules into the air from its surface, it will not have what?
What is the term for when deep ocean water rises to the surface?
What are collisions between gas particles and container walls called?
Cooling a mixture of equal parts nitric oxide and nitrogen dioxide to −21 °c produces what?
What is the most important element to life?
Each female of a particular species can produce millions of these per year?
The cephalic phase (reflex phase) of gastric secretion, which is relatively brief, takes place before food enters where?
What part of the earth does a compass needle align with?
Parasitic chelicerates like ticks and mites have evolved what?
Where do two tributaries come together at?
The force exerted by the atmosphere on the earth’s surface can be measured with what instrument?
What are the substances that the body needs for energy, building materials, and control of body processes?
What term describes the energy required to increase the surface area of a liquid by a given amount?
What is the term for the process of turning sunlight's energy into food?
Because water expands when it freezes, what property of water is lower when it is in a solid state than a liquid?
What is released during dehydration synthesis?
What do plant cells have in addition to a cell wall and a large central vacuole?
What is the only animal group that evolved to live on land and then back to live in the ocean?
What has large crystals because the magma began to cool slowly, then erupted?
What must be regulated in order to maintain carbon dioxide levels and proper blood ph?
Cells may enter a period of rest known as what?
Headaches are associated with which body system?
What kind of volcano has a very wide base and is named because it looks like something a warrior would use?
Earth’s magnetic field is called the what?
Global sources of inexpensive fossil fuels, particularly oil, are rapidly being what?
What is the volume of air inhaled and exhaled with each breath called?
What encloses and defines the borders of cells?
What is the term for a homogeneous mixture of two or more substances?
What is the simplest life cycle?
Like mammals, birds have kidneys with juxtamedullary nephrons that specialize in conserving what?
What is the range of all possible frequencies of radiation called?
What type of growth generally occurs only when a population is living under ideal conditions, yet cannot continue for very long?
What is another term for flagella?
Because arthropod appendages are jointed, they can do what?
What is the main way that wind causes erosion?
Each hydrogen atom follows the octet rule with how many pairs of electrons?
What type of acid is an organic compound that is built of small units called nucleotides?
At what temperatures do crystals formed by covalent molecular solids melt at?
What is the name of the rigid layer that is found outside the cell membrane and surrounds the cell?
Who is widely known as the father of genetics?
Protozoa that cause malaria are spread by a vector, entering the blood through the bite of what insect?
One-dimensional sinusoidal waves show the relationship among wavelength, frequency, and what?
Animals use saturated fatty acids to store what?
The atmospheric concentration of carbon dioxide on earth has been regulated by the concentration of what form of life?
What organisms have a life cycle that includes alternation of generations?
What are nekton animals able to do in water?
What is a property of a system whose magnitude depends on only the present state of the system, not its previous history?
Prokaryotic cells lack what key structure and other membrane-bound organelles?
All of the chemical reactions that take place inside cells, including those that consume or generate energy, are referred to as what?
In genetic drift, chance fluctuations in allele frequencies over generations tend to reduce what?
What gives the order of electron filling in an atom?
What occurs whenever an unbalanced force acts on an object?
What are large collections of millions or billions of stars called?
What is the developmental process of gastropods called?
Name one unit used to measure pressure.
Eggs and sperm are not somatic cells but instead what kind of cells?
Regular checkups with what type of specialist can detect skin cancers early?
Receptors for what sense are located within sensory hairs on the feet of insects, as well as in mouthparts?
Where does the stored energy in fossil fuels originally come from, before it changed forms several times?
A prokaryote is a simple, mostly single-celled organism that lacks what key organelle?
Increasing the surface area of solid reactants increases what rate?
Epithelial cells are found in what body organ?
What's the name for an organic compound in which halogen atoms are substituted for hydrogen in a hydrocarbon?
The trachea and bronchi are made of incomplete rings of this?
What do we call cyclones that form in tropical latitudes?
Which amino acid do organisms incorporate into their proteins?
What fuels are mixtures of hydrocarbons (compounds containing only hydrogen and carbon) that formed over millions of years from the remains of dead organisms?
What is the cartilaginous structure that extends from the pharynx to the primary bronchi?
Excess dietary fat is stored as triglycerides in the body. what type of tissue is used to store the triglycerides?
What do you call winds that occur in belts that go all around the planet?
What property is a property that depends on the amount of matter in a sample?
The legend explains features and symbols on?
Organic acids such as acetic acid all contain a functional group called what?
Which is the only organ system in humans that differs greatly between males and females?
Sound travels through the outer ear to the middle ear, which is bounded on its exterior by the what membrane?
What is the most common cause of hearing loss?
Some products contain iron filings that will react with air to release what type of energy?
Mutations in what type of regulatory gene can cause misplacement of structures in an animal?
By what processes do rivers create floodplains?
What biological agents that infect living hosts contain dna, yet lack the other parts shared by all cells, including a plasma membrane, cytoplasm, and ribosomes?
An extensive property is a property that depends on the amount of what in a sample?
A wheel with a rope wrapped around it, hanging over a building, is an example of what type of machine?
Early types of what animals were the first vertebrates that moved onto land and have true lungs, although they had to return to the water to reproduce?
Many heterocyclic amines occur naturally in what?
What do wind turbines change the kinetic energy of the wind into?
Population growth depends on birth rates and death rates, as well as what?
The exchange of heat stops once what property of equilibrium between the pan and the water is achieved?
If the area to which a force is applied is smaller then the pressure will be?
What do you call the preserved remains or traces of organisms that lived in the past?
What process do single cell organisms use to remove waste and get nutrients into their cell?
Trees release what gas as a byproduct of photosynthesis, thereby facilitating human respiration?
What kind of muscle cells have a single nucleus and are spindle-shaped?
The cortical reaction has begun, initiating events that ensure that only one sperm nucleus enters where?
What do the process of moving air into and out of the lungs better known as?
Which kind of rocks contain felsic minerals, typically contain aluminum and sodium and are high in silica?
What are trees that lose their leaves during winter called?
Other than gametes, normal human cells have a total of how many chromosomes per cell?
What are the simplest type of carbon-based compounds?
Gametogenesis, the production of sperm and eggs, takes place through the process of this?
What is the name of the roundworms digestive organ?
Oxides contain one or two metal elements combined with what?
What combine the spinal sensory and motor components with a sensory input that directly generates a motor response?
What type of evolution happens when two species evolve the same traits?
Which way does an electric charge always move from?
What is the principal blood vessel through which blood leaves the heart in order to circulate around the body?
What increases when a muscle like a biceps is extended?
Hot magma beneath the surface mixes with water and forms what?
The olfactory receptor neurons are located in a small region within what cavity?
Single bonds between atoms are always what?
What kind of attraction does electrical force have?
At what temperatures do alkanes with more carbon atoms boil?
If the tunica externa did not hold a vessel in place, any movement would likely result in disruption of what?
One common way to remove phosphates from water is by the addition of what?
Before going into hibernation bears eat constantly for what reason?
What two elements make up about 99 percent of the air?
The different types of nuclei are referred to as what?
What measure is the total mass of organisms at a trophic level?
What has the least amount of energy in an atom?
What is the visible surface of the sun called?
What do you call organisms that store chemical energy in carbohydrate food molecules they produce themselves?
Which condition is the only autosomal trisomy where an affected individual may survive to adulthood?
What occurs when a population reaches the carrying capacity?
What is the form of logical thinking that uses related observations to arrive at a general conclusion called?
Carbon can form single, double, or triple what with other carbon atoms
Wind or water that travels toward the poles from the equator curves in which direction?
What is defined as the ability to cause changes in matter?
Some spindle microtubules attach to the kinetochores of chromosomes and move the chromosomes to what plate?
What do plants use to make food for themselves and most other organisms?
Chlorophylls and carotenoids are the two major classes of pigments associated with what process and found in plants and algae?
What is created when you combine simple machines?
What is the general term for a parasite that causes disease ?
What device measures atmospheric pressure and can be used as an altimeter?
What are solid-solid solutions like brass and bronze called?
What is the main element in organic compounds?
In living systems, diffusion of substances into and out of cells is mediated by the what?
Desertification can result from slash-and-burn agriculture, which causes loss of what?
What are certain numbers of nucleons, known as magic numbers stable against?
Electron capture occurs when an inner shell electron combines with a proton and is converted into what?
What system consists of neurons that carry signals to skeletal muscles?
Cross-pollination—or out-crossing—leads to greater genetic diversity because the microgametophyte and megagametophyte are derived from what?
Cancers are caused by a series of what?
In comparison to light, the speed of sound is faster or slower?
What type of fossils are of organisms that lived over a wide area for a fairly short period of time and are used to determine the age of the rock it is in?
What term is defined as the preserved remains or traces of organisms that lived during earlier ages?
Which glands produce milk after the birth of offspring?
Reduction often involves the gain of hydrogen, the loss of oxygen, or the gain of what?
What is a short band of tough connective tissue that connects bones together to form a joint?
When you burn wood into ash or burn a marshmallow to become brown and crispy, it is impossible to undo.  this change is known as what?
Which biomes are determined mainly by sunlight and concentrations of dissolved oxygen and nutrients in the water?
What is the moon's shadow's inner part called?
The earliest known mammal fossils are from which period?
Each parapodium has numerous chaetae, bristles made of what?
What phylum includes sponges, which are aquatic invertebrates?
Which are the three most important temperature scales?
What part of the body does caffeine stimulate?
An alpha particle, which is emitted during alpha decay, consists of two protons and what else?
Melanin in skin is produced in response to exposure to what type of light?
Protein molecules are made up of chains of small molecules made up of what kinds of acids?
Which element has the highest electronegativity value?
When small particles, such as clay and silt, are in mixed in water but do not disolve in the water, what state are they in?
When a person stands on the floor, his feet exert what on the surface?
Molds that grow on bread are from what kingdom?
What is defined as the change in the size of the population over time?
The frequency of sound waves is measured in what, or the number of waves that pass a fixed point in a second?
What are examples of parasitic athropods?
In a position-time graph, what does the slope of the line represent?
Salmon must do what when they migrate from freshwater to the ocean?
What occurs when two free radicals come in contact with each other?
Despite the season, what aspect of constellations never change?
What do you call electrons that form bonds with other elements in compounds and generally determine the properties of elements?
What is the members of the clade vertebrata known as?
What two ways do fruits mainly disperse seeds?
What helps maglev trains go very fast?
What is the study of energy changes that occur during chemical reactions and during changes of state?
Hormones that share what usually perform the same function?
A glacier is an example of h20 in which state of matter?
Silver chloride can be used as an antidote for which kind of poisoning?
What do we call the microflora that aid in the digestion process?
Nitrogen also is released to the environment by decaying organisms or decaying wastes. these wastes release nitrogen in the form of what?
What requirement of the second circuit does the current that flows in the primary circuit depend on?
Mammalian sex determination is determined genetically by the presence of chromosomes identified by what letters?
What kind of symmetry do most adult echinoderms possess?
What happens if cancer cells enter the blood stream?
Fires, mainly caused by what, are a natural disturbance in temperate grasslands?
What is the net force acting on an object when two equal forces are applied from opposite directions?
Insects use what structures, located on the head, to smell and taste chemicals, and in some cases to hear sounds?
The carbon cycle includes photosynthesis, in which plants change what to organic compounds?
Nucleic acids are found in all living cells and also what?
What is the gelatinous layer that is sandwiched between the epidermis and gastrodermis?
Mollusks can be divided into how many classes?
Stars are lit by what reaction?
What is the term for a partial degradation of glucose without the use of oxygen?
What is the term for the measurement of the amount of variation of species in a given area?
The radioactive gas radon and uv radiation are culprits in different types of what disease?
What is used to show energy flow through the trophic levels?
Compared to a straight wire, a coiled wire has a stronger what?
The extrusive type of what rock cools rapidly from lava at the surface?
The burning of fossil fuels releases three major things - thermal energy, water vapor, and what pollutant?
Ground collapse, associated with chambers of what substance, leads to formation of a caldera?
A habitat’s features are determined mainly by abiotic factors such as?
Sulfuric acid conducts the charge in what kind of battery?
The pubis forms the anterior portion of what bone?
What is the general term for water that falls from clouds to earth’s surface, in forms that include snow and rain?
What are an important predators of mosquitoes, that can be used to control this pest?
Receptors for which hormones reside in the cytoplasm or nucleus?
Heterotrophs get food by eating what?
What is the process called when liquid changes to gas, even though it has not become hot enough to boil?
How often do partial lunar eclipses occur?
What are the trillions of bacteria living within the large intestine called?
What is the process by which rocks and other sediments are picked up by a glacier?
Genetic variation produced in sexual life cycles contributes to what process?
Animal claws, spines, and shells are examples of what strategy for survival?
The jejunum is about 0.9 meters (3 feet) long (in life) and runs from the duodenum to the ileum. jejunum means “empty” in latin and supposedly was so named by the ancient greeks who noticed it was always what?
Cellular innate defenses in vertebrates also involve natural killer what?
Which construction material previously used in factories and in homes caused cancer?
What is the number waves that pass a fixed point in a given amount of time called?
The outer ear, or ear canal, carries sound to the recessed protected what?
What sport involves people quickly finding destinations using polar coordinates?
Almost all earthquakes occur at which place?
Melting glaciers, rising temperatures and droughts are all impacts of what?
What parts of a human possess the highest concentration of thermoreceptors?
Compounds that are capable of accepting electrons, such as o 2 or f2, are called what?
What term in biotechnology means a genetically exact copy of an organism?
Vertebrata are characterized by the presence of what?
What is the height above or below sea level called?
Ice cores, varves and what else indicate the environmental conditions at the time of their creation?
What chemical signals in plants control different processes?
Meiosis is part of the process of gametogenesis, which is the production of what?
Which type of tree is dominant in temperate forests?
What kind of viscosity is found in long-chain hydrocarbons?
Ionic compounds have strong electrostatic attractions between oppositely charged ions in this?
About how tall can mid-ocean ridges be?
What are by far the most common type of invertebrate?
What do waves deposit to form sandbars and barrier islands?
Penis, testes, and epididymis are organs in what system?
Only about one percent of plants have lost what ability, turning them into consumers and even predators, instead of producers?
How does a neon light produce visible light?
The bird ancestor that lived in trees developed what feature commonly associated with birds?
What do most living things use to make atp from glucose?
What are the two most common silicates?
What term means the amount of water vapor in the air?
Paracrine signals move by what method through the extracellular matrix?
Presence of a cell wall, large central vacuole, and organelles called plastids distinguish what type of cell?
What happens when mammals raise their hair with tiny muscles in the skin?
What are people with osteoporosis at increased risk of?
Where is energy stored in a chemical substance?
By the year 2050, 25 percent of the population of the united states will be 60 years of age or older. the cdc estimates that 80 percent of those 60 years and older have one or more chronic disease associated with deficiencies of this?
Upon death of an organism, during composition, what returns to the soil as ammonium ions?
Most insects reproduce quickly and through what type of reproduction?
Digestion of proteins begins with acids in what organ?
Many species of rotifers exhibit haplodiploidy, which is a method of what?
What is the most abundant metal of the earth's crust?
What is the term for the total kinetic energy of moving particles of matter?
What part of the eye allows light to enter?
The body cannot sustain for very long the bursts of energy mediated by epinephrine and norepinephrine, hormones associated with what stress response?
What system enters the brain stem and influences activity in the cerebellum, spinal cord, and cerebral cortex?
In what type of animals may a body cavity be present or absent?
Chemical reactions involve a transfer of heat energy. measured in what?
Trees and shrubs are example of what type of plant?
The products of what process are needed for cellular respiration, and vice versa?
Most fungi get organic compounds from what?
How do very massive stars end their lives?
Pairs of nitrogenous bases are attached to each other by?
Rupture can cause fragments of what to travel via the bloodstream and become lodged in other arteries?
The strength of a base depends on the concentration of _______ it produces when dissolved in water?
The overall voltage of the battery is therefore the sum of ________ of the individual cells.
Organisms that live deep in the ocean must be able to withstand what?
Which system are the brain and spinal cord apart of?
What are biochemical catalysts that speed up biochemical reactions?
What process can cause harmful alleles to become fixed?
What record shows that dinosaurs originated 200-250 million years ago?
What instrument is used to make very sensitive mass measurements in a laboratory, usually in grams?
What is the purpose of bright colors on a flower's petals?
Collateral ganglia controls organs in which cavity in the body?
A bee will sometimes do a dance to tell other bees in the hive where to find what?
The lens focuses light on the retina , which covers the back of the inside of the eye. the retina has light-sensing photoreceptor cells called?
Temperature, water, soil, and air are examples of nonliving factors of an ecosystem, also termed what?
Ibuprofen and albuterol are examples of drugs whose _________ have different effects.
Although magma once filled our moon's craters, what is thought to have ended there over a billion years ago?
Sensory nerves carry nerve impulses from sensory receptors to what system?
Which kind of muscle regulates air flow in lungs?
What type of bonds are formed by the side-to-side overlap of p orbitals?
On what day of the cycle does ovulation usually occur?
The majority of animals belong to what category, characterized by the lack of a backbone?
What is another name for the vertebral column?
The temperature at which a substance melts is called its what point?
Oogenesis, which is gametogenesis in females, begins with what type of ste cells?
Humans are among the most versatile of mammals with what type of diet?
Solute potential is also called osmotic potential because solutes affect the direction of what?
Newton’s second law of what is more than a definition; it is a relationship among acceleration, force, and mass?
What is the physical transformation of an insect moving through stages of life?
When equal amounts of a strong acid such as hydrochloric acid are mixed with a strong base such as sodium hydroxide, the result is what kind of solution?
What are fast moving rivers of air that are going in opposite directions called?
Nephrons, renal tubules and the loop of henle are part of the process of blood filtration by what organs?
Fungi, such as black bread mold (rhizopus nigricans), have haploid-dominant what?
The electrode at which oxidation occurs is called?
There are about 6200 known species of what?
The lens and other parts of the eye work together to focus a real image on what eye structure?
What is required to move or change matter from one state to another?
A food web can be broken up into what further subdivision that usually has a few links in it?
What living species of bird is considered the  largest of the raptors?
What contains positive protons and neutral neutrons?
Horny ridges on the jaws serve the same function as what, for turtles?
Natural gas is the predominately made up of?
Which  organs control the amount of water, ions, and other substances in the blood by excreting more or less of them in urine?
What unit of measurement is defined to be the number of atoms in 12g of carbon-12?
What involves sensing and focusing light from people and objects?
What is a therian mammal in which the embryo is born at an early, immature stage?
What are fungi which feed on living cells called?
What rock group offers the richest source of fossils?
What is the diffusion of water through a semipermeable membrane down its concentration gradient
Isotopes are named for their number of protons plus what?
Movements in the mantle cause the plates to move over time in a process called what?
In phyisics, what is considered to be the rotational version of force?
Skeletal muscles are attached to the skeleton by tough connective tissues called what?
What is the ability to see called?
Which two major innovations allowed seed plants to reproduce in the absence of water?
Water can be broken down into hydrogen and oxygen gases by the addition of what?
What anatomical feature is shared by all chordates?
With wavelengths from 400-700 nm, what kind of light represents only a very small portion of the spectrum?
In humans, the only haploid cells are what reproductive cells?
Where is the spinal trigeminal nucleus located?
The lithosphere is divided into a dozen major and several minor what?
During the first year after birth, what is a baby called?
What are used to indicate the number of atoms of an element that are in the compound?
Area, volume, and speed are all examples of what type of units?
Anything moving has what type of energy?
A skydiver will reach what when the air drag equals their weight?
What organs are considered the female gonads?
What is the adaptation that certain animals use to become less visible to predators and prey?
What is another term for blood clotting?
What do you call the study of how organisms interact with their environment and each other?
Childbirth usually starts when which sac breaks?
What phenomenon, which is most important in small populations, occurs because the alleles in an offspring generation are a random sample of the alleles in the parent generation?
What is the term for when an embryo fixes itself to the side of the uterus?
When exposed to ultraviolet, some substances, such as minerals, glow in characteristic visible wavelengths, a process called this?
What disease occurs when the cell cycle is no longer regulated?
If a lump of clay is dropped into water, what will occur?
Nerve cells that sense touch are found mainly where?
What do concentric circles on a topographic map indicate?
Arthropods today have two unusual hox genes, both of which influence what?
What are the little sacs at the end of the bronchioles called?
How often should women perform a breast self-exam?
The spokes of what structures that distinguish saturn appear seasonally, with an origin as yet unknown?
Circulating the air prevents ethylene from accumulating, and carbon dioxide inhibits synthesis of new what?
What is a fiber that is found only in mammals?
The sternocleidomastoid is the major muscle that laterally flexes and rotates what?
What type of plants does human welfare depend greatly on?
What forms when secondary alcohols oxidize?
What are cells without a nucleus called?
Bones, cartilage, and what other thing make up the skeletal system?
The hypothalamus is actually part of the brain, but it also secretes what?
What disease characterized by the extreme swelling of the limbs is caused by infection with a type of roundworm?
What is the study of water movement, including waves and ocean currents?
What part of the sperm contains the nucleus?
There are many types of asexual spores. conidiospores are unicellular or multicellular spores that are released directly from the tip or side of this?
What forms when nitrogen and sulfur oxides in air dissolve in rain?
Where do mushrooms get their energy?
What are the hormones that cause a plant to grow?
The ileum is the last part of what digestive system organ?
What are the smallest structural and functional unit of all living organisms?
Clubfoot, also known as talipes, is a congenital (present at birth) disorder of unknown cause and is the most common deformity of what?
Somatic cells come from the body and are not what, like sperm or eggs are?
What forms when nitrogen and oxygen combine at high temperatures?
A diagram in which the numerical values of variables are represented by the height or length of lines or rectangles of equal width is called?
What opens two strands of dna?
What come together to create continents and supercontinents?
Most hybrids are sterile because what genetic structures are not homologous and cannot pair during meiosis?
Vultures, raccoons and blowflies are examples of what?
What are classified by climatic factors and types of primary producers?
All organisms can be classified into one of three of this least specific grouping?
What artery takes blood to the brain?
The bohr model works only for which atom?
What holds together adenine and thymine?
Approximately 20% of the atmosphere is made of which element?
Compound forms when atoms of nonmetals form molecules that are held together by what?
Which property of diamond makes it so hard?
Which has a higher metabolic rate, a mouse or an elephant?
The bony socket that houses the eyeball and associated muscles is called?
Where does the energy produced by plants come from?
Humans cannot digest what primary structural material of plants, which is one of the most abundant organic substances on earth?
The cell walls of what organisms are strengthened by chitin, unlike plant cell walls, which contain cellulose?
What three parts is the earth divided into?
Ac is better than dc for doing what?
What arises due to crossing over, independent assortment, and the random union of gametes?
Myofibrils are long cylindrical structures that lie parallel to and run the entire length of what fibers?
Hydrogen atoms form only one covalent bond because they have only one have one of what to pair with it?
The ionic end of a detergent can either be a sulfate or what?
The inside of the small intestine has many folds, called villi. microvilli are lined with blood vessels as well as lymphatic vessels. the inside of the small intestine is called this?
Why do fish have short esophaguses?
What broad animal group is thought to have evolved from theropod dinosaurs around 150 million years ago?
During evolution, something happened to increase the size of what organ in humans, relative to that of the chimpanzee?
What is the protein in red blood cells which transports oxygen around the body?
The glass hydrometer is filled with air and weighted with lead at the bottom. it floats highest in the densest fluids and has been calibrated and labeled so that you can read this from it?
What system provides a major route for heat flow between the interior and exterior of the body?
Organs involved in digestion that do not have food pass through them are called?
At a synapse, what objects are released to carry a nerve impulse from one neuron to the next?
All cells have a jellylike substance in which subcellular components are suspended. what is that substance?
In physics, when one subtracts the frictional force from the applied force what is the result?
What is the term for the force that brings objects toward the earth?
Skyscrapers and other large structures built on soft ground must be anchored to what, located below the ground surface?
When your brain senses that your body temperature is increasing, it sends messages to the blood vessels in the skin to increase in what?
Ingestion and propulsion are the first two steps in which process that describes how humans process and consume food?
Which fish has a round sucker used to suck the blood of other fish?
What type of change is undergone when the physical properties of a substance are changed?
Digestive enzymes are released, or secreted, by the organs of which body system?
When water is aerated it can provide a plant's roots with what gas for cellular respiration?
Where on a jellyfish is the mouth opening located?
Calcium ion is an example of what kind of messenger?
Aspirin and ibuprofen reduce pain by inhibiting the synthesis of what?
What unit do astronomers use to describe distances in space?
What is the process by which water moves through semi-permeable membranes from one part of the body to another?
What is the phenotypic range of a particular genotype called?
What cells are the basis of nervous tissue?
Pure carbon can exist in different forms, depending on how its atoms are arranged. the forms include diamond, graphite, and what else?
Which cavity, filled with lubricating serous fluid, lies between the epicardium and the pericardium?
What part of the male reproductive system is involved with the most common disorders?
Layers of what create a volcano?
In amphibians, reptiles, birds, and mammals, blood flow is directed in two circuits: one through the lungs and back to the heart, which is called what?
Non-human organisms that mainly consume plants/other primary producers are known as what?
In the microbiology lab, what technique refers to the procedures that are carried out under sterile conditions?
Connecting a magnesium rod to an underground steel pipeline protects the pipeline from corrosion. because magnesium (e° = −2.37 v) is much more easily oxidized than iron (e° = −0.45 v), the mg rod acts as the anode in a what?
Matrix is the term for the fluid-filled interior of what structure, where most of the cell’s atp is made?
Chitin, also found in the exoskeleton of insects, gives structural strength to the cell walls of fungi. the cell wall protects the cell from what?
What is the term for air moving over earth’s surface?
Each of what paired organs is enclosed within a cavity surrounded by the pleura?
What are the best-known extinct vertebrates?
Centrioles help organize the chromosomes before cell division so that each daughter cell has the correct number of what?
What development is less risky for the mother?
What does the term decay in chemistry refer to with regards to atoms?
How does increasing the temperature of reactants affect the rate of their reaction?
What type of eclipse happens when a full moon moves through earth's shadow?
Dynamite is an example of what type of potential energy?
All the atoms of a given element have the same number what?
What structures located on chromosomes control characteristics of life and are passed from parents to offspring?
The lattice energy is usually the most important energy factor in determining the stability of what?
What kind of organisms helps hold soil in place to slow erosion?
Water found on the surface of the earth is referred to as what?
Which planet is named after the roman goddess of love?
In astronomy, what are so dense that not even light can escape their gravity?
What are the simplest organic compounds?
Animals are classified according to morphological and developmental characteristics, such as a body plan. with the exception of sponges, the animal body plan is symmetrical. this means that their distribution of body parts is balanced along this?
Competition that occurs between members of the same species, which improves the species’ adaptations, is called what?
When we were dealing with electrical effects, it was very useful to speak of an electric field that surrounded what?
Plants require air, water, nutrients, and what in order to live and survive?
Exothermic reactions, like all chemical reactions, require what to get started?
What broad group of animals are the first true tetrapods, vertebrates with four limbs?
In most fungi, the haploid nuclei contributed by each parent do not do what right away?
What is telomere shortening associated with?
What gas is released when dead organisms and other organic materials decompose?
What type of lens is thicker at the edges than it is in the middle?
A collapsing nebula leads to what process?
Lenses that focus light are called what?
What happens to the pressure when more gas is added to a rigid container?
Often represented by an arrow, a vector is a measurement that has both size and what?
A solenoid wrapped around a bar of iron or other ferromagnetic material forms what?
Enzymes can catalyze up to several million reactions per what?
Unipolar, bipolar, multipolar, and pseudounipolar are the four basic types of what?
How many families are known quarks divided into?
The nervous system has two main parts, called the central nervous system and the what?
What makes up the dense outer layer of bones?
What type of behaviors are rigid and predictable, and usually involve basic life functions?
Yeasts, molds, and mushrooms are all different kinds of what?
What is the term for the preserved remains or traces of organisms that lived in the past?
What process, which is analogous to mitosis, is a series of events that arrange and separate chromosomes and chromatids into daughter cells?
All of the elements in group 9 have nine of which electrons?
The force of attraction between a positively charged metal ion and the valence electrons it shares with other ions of the metal is called?
When a car is brought to a stop by friction on level ground, it loses what?
What system of the body is responsible for transmitting, processing, and responding to most of the sensory information that is created by various stimuli?
Do vascular or nonvascular plants lack tracheids?
When the earth is between the moon and the sun, what type of moon shows?
The stored chemical energy of trees and other plants is called what?
What is the star nearest the earth named?
What are the majority of solution properties dependent upon?
What must be combined with a halogen to give it a positive oxidation number?
Hormones are often regulated through what?
Surging hormones will cause adolescents to have what?
What is the term for the force that a magnet exerts on certain materials?
What cells does the skeletal system make?
When a stream or river slows down, it starts dropping its what?
What process, which is in many ways the opposite of photosynthesis, shows the interdependence of producers and consumers?
Which membranous organelles in a cell sequence enzyme and electron molecules for efficient cellular respiration?
In a plant, the flower contains what?
What forms when one substances dissolves in another?
What are thought to have evolved at least 200 million years ago from gymnosperms like gnetae?
The chemical and/or physical agents that cause mutations are called what?
What is the force that opposes motion between two surfaces that are touching?
Skeletal, cardiac, and smooth are all types of what?
The speed of a wave through connected harmonic oscillators depends on the distance between them, the spring constant, and the what?
Traits may also be controlled by multiple alleles or multiple what?
How many atoms does water contain?
What is the only light that people can see?
What is the name of the system that consists of a hierarchy of taxa, from the kingdom to the species?
If the dna from all 46 chromosomes in a human cell nucleus was laid out end to end, it would measure approximately how long?
What is a mixture of a solute in a solvent called?
Silver is an example of a mineral containing only one kind of what?
What particles ancient greeks propose that matter consists of ?
Repolarization occurs when the membrane potential begins to move back toward its resting what?
Mollusks have a true coelom and a complete what?
Which organelles, made of protein and ribosomal rna, build cellular proteins in the cytoplasm?
What type of matter makes up most of the universe?
Most mammals are viviparous, which refers to what reproductive result?
Proteins are polymers of what kind of acids?
What is the official name for the study of life?
What does an invertebrate, like a snail, not have?
What is the dinosaur genus that's closest to modern birds?
In what type of organisms are daughter cells individuals?
What group was long considered part of the plant kingdom because of obvious similarities; both are immobile, have cell walls, and grow in soil?
What type of waves transmit the energy of an earthquake?
In our bodies, the chest cavity is a clear example of a system at what?
How do prokaryotic cells divide?
What is the term for a series of biochemical reactions by which an organism converts a given reactant to a specific end product?
Exemplified by sea stars and sand dollars, echinoderms have a calcareous structure developed by pigment cells and made of ossicles, which is called what?
What phase does the nuclear envelope begin to break down?
What are formed when cells from the male and female parts of the plant combine?
What is another name for anther pollen sacs?
What is released to lubricate the vagina to facilitate intercourse?
Cnidarians are an example of organisms that possess a simple type of what system, used for sensing touch?
What can we learn about a wave by finding the product of the wavelength and frequency?
Where are liverworts most often found?
What does a continuous string of earthquakes indicate about a volcano?
What term is used to describe  the variety of life and its processes, including the variety of living organisms, the genetic differences among them, and the communities and ecosystems in which they occur?
What kind of a disorder is tay-sachs disease?
A rock that contains important minerals is called what, a term associated with mining?
Besides the size of their crystals, how are igneous rocks grouped?
Convection is the heat transfer by the macroscopic movement of a what?
Hypersection by an endocrine gland is often caused by what?
What gland secretes growth hormones?
We must remember that the formal charge calculated for an atom is not the actual charge of the atom in the molecule. formal charge is only a useful bookkeeping procedure; it does not indicate the presence of these?
What kind of rock layer makes up the bottom of an aquifer?
The amniotic egg is a shared ancestral character for which clade?
Lyme disease is caused by what kind of organim?
What is the side to side movement of the mandible called?
A moraine is sediment deposited by what?
The development of the respiratory system in the fetus begins at about?
What are plants that grow on other plants called?
An object attached to a spring sliding on a frictionless surface is an uncomplicated type of what device?
What controls all five senses?
Where in the target cells are intracellular receptor proteins found?
The components of a mixture keep their own identity when they combine, so they retain what type of properties, such as boiling point and ability to dissolve?
A thermite reaction is thermodynamically spontaneous, and because it is associated with a significant release of heat, it is regarded as what?
What do nectar-feeding bats do to flowers?
Ecological succession refers to the change in the numbers and types of species that live in what groups?
What broad group of organisms is characterized by sensory organs, the ability to move, internal digestion and sexual reproduction?
Foodborne illness, food allergies, or a food intolerance cause symptoms in what system?
The number of what subatomic particles determines an element’s atomic number and is used to distinguish one element from another?
What regulates the time of flowering in many species?
What is the most common cause of down syndrome?
What occurs not only as organisms grow, but as they reproduce.
What useful tool helps scientists work with, understand and make predictions about extremely complex systems?
A dilute solution is one that has a relatively small amount of what?
Each bond includes a sharing of electrons between atoms. two electrons are shared in a single bond; four electrons are shared in a double bond; and six electrons are shared in this?
What is the process of breaking an individual into parts followed by regeneration called?
The left atrium receives oxygen-rich blood from which organs?
If the water vapor condenses in liquid droplets as clouds form, what is released in the atmosphere?
An increase in the number of gas molecules in the same volume container causes what to increase?
What do induction cooktops have under their surface?
How many types of molecular orbitals can form from the overlap of two atomic s orbitals on adjacent atoms?
Salicylic acid is used in the synthesis of acetylsalicylic acid, or more commonly called?
What is the term for groups of cells with a similar appearance and a common function, and describes how cells are organized?
What kind of weather do psychrophiles need to grow and reproduce?
What creates new seafloor in the rift valleys?
The building blocks of proteins are called what?
Type 1 diabetes and gigantism are examples of what type of disorder?
In photosynthesis, what process involving carbon dioxide and oxygen occurs through small, regulated openings called stomata?
Which molecules are made of one carbon and four hydrogen atoms?
Atoms of different elements have different numbers of what?
The lancelet lacks what feature that distinguishes vertebrates?
What is a reptiles skin covered in to protect them from drying out?
In sexual reproduction, the fusion of haploid gametes forms a diploid cell called what?
Gabbro is a dark dense rock that can be found in what?
What provides clear evidence of evolution?
About half of what type of radiation is absorbed in the first 15 meters of water?
What begins with a diploid cell and ends with four haploid cells?
Two smaller isotopes, more neutrons, and heat energy are the products of what type of reaction?
What percentage of the field is tilled in traditional plowing?
Traits controlled by genes on the sex chromosomes are called what?
What structures are at the end of the long air passages in the lungs?
What is a disease caused by the same virus that causes chicken pox?
In a solution what is the substance a solute dissolves in is called?
What is it called when sound is reflected off an object?
Acidic hydrogen atoms are those which will be transferred to what?
In an ecosystem, what do you call organisms like lions that capture and kill other animals for food?
What type of diseases occur when the immune system attacks normal body cells?
Most modern seed plants are angiosperms, which produce seeds in the ovaries of what basic structure?
What is produced by the end of meiosis?
In the u. s. , the majority of electricity is produced by burning coal or what else?
Farming practices leave some soil exposed and vulnerable to what natural process?
Matter is made up of a mixture of things called what?
Water seeps into the ground through permeable material and stops when it reaches what?
Vertebrate animals have two major body cavities, the dorsal and what is the other?
There are 20 different common amino acids needed to make what organic compound?
Sponges exemplify what type of arrangement, where different cells are specialized for different functions, but each cell works alone?
What type of chemical reactions release energy?
Some types of minerals form balls called what?
According to the special theory of relativity, no physical object can equal or exceed the speed of what?
What is another word for cellular drinking?
What do you call water that flows out of the ground where an aquifer meets the surface?
What do you call the basic units of the structure and function of living things?
What is the conversion of a solid to a gas called?
Which form of dialysis has a patient’s blood pass through a length of tubing that travels through an artificial kidney machine?
What are the only type of elements capable of changing into different elements?
What does the inside of all cells also contain?
What anatomical structures insulate, protect and provide sensory input?
Known for its beautiful rings, what is the second largest planet in the solar system?
What kind of waves are used in radar guns?
On what lobe of the liver is the gallbladder near?
What process is used for cell growth, repair of cuts and replacement of worn out cells?
What do astronomers term the stretching of space that causes the distance between galaxies to increase?
What are the two types of digestive systems invertebrates may have?
What does the gradient of bicoid protein determine?
What term is used to describe a cancer that has spread?
What is the most abundant of all vertebrate classes, and the most recent to evolve?
How many calories of energy does one gram of protein provide?
What is the cure of cancer known as?
What is the outer layer of the exoskeleton called?
In what stage of their life cycle do insects begin developing their wings?
The speed of sound depends on what?
Why is the life cycle of plants so complex?
While elements are represented by chemical symbols, chemical formulas represent what?
What is a form of cell division in prokaryotic organisms that produces identical offspring?
What system consists of organs that break down food and absorb nutrients such as glucose?
What is the transition from solid to vapor is called?
In contrast with cnidarians, nematodes show a tubular morphology and circular cross-section. these animals are pseudocoelomates and show the presence of a complete digestive system with a distinct mouth and this?
The amount of heat required to raise a single mass unit of a substance by a single temperature unit is known as what?
What is the most important source of electromagnetic radiation on earth?
What kind of drugs are formulated to help deal with hiv and herpes as well as influenza and two types of hepatitis?
Trees, which can be planted and harvested, are an example of what type of resource?
After a supernova, what part of a star remains?
What is essential for population of all species to expand greatly?
What is usually the most visible part of the flower?
What do ionic bonds form between?
The interaction between atomic orbitals is greatest when they have the same what?
What occurs when competing species evolve different adaptations?
Haversian canals contain blood vessels and what else?
What type of telescopes collect and focus radio waves from distant objects?
Cells have multiple repair mechanisms to fix mutations in what?
What are different versions of a gene known as?
All chemical reactions involve both reactants and what else?
Potassium hydroxide in soap is an example of what?
What is the process by which organisms give rise to offspring?
Photosynthesis is an endothermic reaction that gets its energy from what?
Paramecium possess tiny hair-like cilia that help them do what?
What is a complex machine that burns fuel to produce thermal energy and then uses the thermal energy to do work?
In both eukaryotes and prokaryotes, ribosomes are the non-membrane bound organelles where what main product of the cell is made?
What is it called when ice changes to liquid water?
Biological features from a common evolutionary origin are known as what?
Salts that are neither acidic nor basic do not affect what property of the solution when dissolved in water?
What protects the pollen of seed plants and spores of seedless plants?
Cells that have a nucleus and other organelles which are membrane-bound are generally called what kinds of cells?
What is first stage of cellular respiration?
What are groups of stars called that are smaller than a galaxy?
Expansion of a gas into a vacuum is irreversible because the external pressure is measurably less than the internal pressure of the gas, and no states of what exist?
One important phenomenon related to the relative strength of cohesive and adhesive forces is capillary action—the tendency of a fluid to be raised or suppressed in a narrow tube, or called this?
What happens to air density and pressure when gas molecules are warm?
What kind of reproduction generates most of the genetic variation that makes evolutionary adaptation possible?
Can nematodes be a parasite of plants, animals, or both?
What kind of weather can you expect if a center of low pressure is moving your way?
What is a thin membrane stretched tight across the end of the ear canal that vibrates when sound waves strike it?
Icy objects that have very elliptical orbits around the sun are called?
What geologic era is also known as the age of mammals?
Radioactive atoms, nuclear explosions, and stars produce what types of rays.
The similarities and differences between the genomes confirm patterns of what?
What are the two components of all solutions?
On how many of the continents do birds live and breed?
The hydrogen is oxidized because it undergoes a partial loss of what?
What is land with permafrost, no trees, and small hardy plants?
Viruses replicate only in where?
Matter undergoing chemical reactions and physical changes can release or absorb heat. a change that releases heat is called what?
What hormone secreted by the pineal gland controls sleep-wake cycles and several other processes?
What is defined as the ability to do work?
What two types of tissue compose most of the non-pregnant and non-lactating female breast?
Control of the body can be somatic or autonomic, offering one way to divide what organ system by function?
What is the female reproductive structure of a flower?
Cysteine is a type of what fundamental building block of protein?
The leaves of what plant genus are the source of the compound ephedrine, which is used in medicine as a potent decongestant and is similar to amphetamines?
The simplest organic compounds are known as what?
Who developed a classification system that divided living things into several groups that we still use today, including mammals, insects, and reptiles?
All biochemical molecules have oxygen, carbon, and what other element?
What is a structure that is composed of one or more types of tissues?
If the buoyant force is greater than the force of gravity acting on a ship, what will happen to the ship?
What are different types of tissues organized into functional units called?
Practitioners of what thought all matter was composed of different proportions of four basic elements, and that if you changed the proportions of these elements, you could change the substance itself?
What are atoms of the same element that differ in their numbers of neutrons called?
What is added to a measured portion of a more concentrated stock solution to achieve a particular concentration?
What do humans and bats have physically in common?
Because optics fibers are thin, entering light may strike the inside surface at greater than the critical angle, requiring attention to what?
What is a vector quantity with the same direction as the force called?
Club mosses, horsetails, ferns, and whisk ferns are examples of what type of plants?
What do seeds have that spores do not?
A vector is an organism that carries what disease-causing microorganisms from one person or animal to another?
When explosion of gases creates pressure resulting in motion of a rocket, the force pushing the rocket is called what?
What once most common bird in north america became extinct in the 1800s?
What is the process called where nitrogen is repeatedly recycled through the biosphere?
What does pepsin help break down into amino acids?
What are the most successful phylum of plants?
The muscular layer is much thicker in which ventricle of the heart?
In many places, small hills rise above the ocean floor. these hills are undersea volcanoes, called what?
Ants, termites, bees, and wasps live in what type of social structure that may include millions of individual insects?
Schrödinger’s approach uses three quantum numbers (n, l, and ml) to specify any of what type of function, associated with a particular energy?
What is the term for the ability of an atom to emit, or give off, charged particles and energy from its nucleus?
What type of fluid cushions the fetus and helps protect it from injury?
How can you prevent diseases such as whooping cough and flu?
Why do snakes have venomous bites?
Chelicerae in spiders are often modified into fangs that perform what function?
What results from uncontrolled cell division?
Where do angiosperms form seeds?
What term is used to describe the development of new technology?
All of the populations that live in the same area make up what type of group, which includes populations of different organisms?
What model describing atomic structure is often referred to as a planetary model?
The medium moves back and forth in the same direction as the wave in what type of wave?
A ramp is a type of simple machine called what?
Where do plants take in air?
Under the right conditions, what energy source can be used to eject electrons from a solid material?
The type of bond that forms between molecules is called what?
Radiation, chemicals, and infectious agents are examples of what?
What is the name for a tool commonly used by molecular biologists to place genetic material into cells?
What is the study of how forces affect the motion of objects?
Compounds containing which element are the basis of all known life?
What type of rocks form when an existing rock is changed by heat or pressure?
What does jupiter reflect a lot of due to its size?
Invertebrates (and higher animals) can also be placed in one of two groups based on how they develop as what?
Which chemist developed a process to remove carbon and dust particles in smoke?
What are gases called that absorb heat in the atmosphere?
What are the specialized cells that sponges have?
What shape are the muscles that control the anus?
What are the small molecules or proteins produced by bacteria that regulate gene expression?
Channel proteins form what in the membrane?
The sun gives off energy in tiny packets called what?
What is a rock that contains important minerals called?
A high metabolic rate and hair are ways mammals generate and conserve what?
What is made of molecules of many different gases, and is something we usually can’t see, taste, or smell; we can only feel it when it moves?
What navigation technology works on the same principle as echolocation?
A reaction producing heat is what type of reaction?
What evolutionary process has adapted protonephridia to different tasks in different environments?
Some bacteria cannot be cultured because they are obligate intracellular parasites and cannot be grown outside what?
What are living things that produce food for themselves and other organisms called?
What is the second largest class of elements?
The process in which a gas changes to a liquid is called what?
What are solids with high melting and boiling points?
What kind of cells are polyribosomes found in?
Which gland is controlled by a negative feedback loop that includes the hypothalamus and pituitary gland?
What term means the set of processes by which metals are extracted from their ores and converted to more useful forms?
What blood-carrying structures contain one-way valves that contribute to the return of blood to the heart?
What type of components of the biosphere do chemical elements and water pass through during ecosystem recycle?
The relationship between a nucleotide codon and its corresponding amino acid is called what?
Traditionally, what preventative measure used weakened or inactive forms of microorganisms or viruses to stimulate the immune system?
What is the measurement of something along it's greatest dimension called?
What form the skeletons of most organic molecules?
What term describes the process of vesicles fusing with the plasma membrane and releasing their contents to the outside of the cell?
A sealed, vacuum-insulated reaction flask approximates what condition, in which neither matter nor heat can be exchanged between system and surroundings?
A metarteriole is a type of vessel that has structural characteristics of both an arteriole and this?
What sort of walls are helpful for keeping a slope stable?
What is the most direct way of recovering a metal from its ores?
What is the term used to describe the minerals and vitamins that are not needed for providing the body with energy but are still essential for good health?
What type of map reveals the shape of a landscape?
Does atmospheric pressure increase or decrease as the altitude increases?
What term always refers to acceleration in the direction opposite to the direction of the velocity and always reduces speed, unlike negative acceleration?
What do you call a quantity of motion that has both size as well as direction?
What process done by bacteria makes them important producers in aquatic ecosystems?
Monosaccharides, disaccharides, and polysaccharides are types of what kind of macromolecule?
What action do particles of the same charge do to each other?
A cold front is formed when a cold air mass runs into what?
What is the the process by which remains or traces of living things become fossils called?
Light is a form of what kind of energy?
When compared to anaerobic respiration, what does aerobic respiration release more of?
As the telencephalon enlarges and grows into the cranial cavity, it is limited by the space within what bone structure?
What is a relationship where one species benefits and the other is unaffected?
Quarks are very tiny particles of matter that make up what?
What term is used to describe  is the spontaneous emission of particles and radiation from atomic nuclei?
The right and left hip bones, with the addition of the sacrum and coccyx form what section of the skeleton?
What do metals start out as?
What is the si unit for weight?
The flower is an angiosperm structure specialized for what function?
Recent evidence indicates some of what type of cells remain within the heart, continuing to divide and potentially replace dead cells?
About what percentage of the earth's water is fresh water?
While numerous elements can undergo fission, only a few can be used as fuels in what nuclear devices?
What is an estimation of all of the organic matter available as food, and involves measuring biomass in terrestrial environments?
Twenty-four hours before fertilization, the egg has finished meiosis and becomes a mature what?
Oxygen is combined with what to form water?
Does lava flow quickly or slowly when thick?
The evaporative loss of the most energetic water molecules does what to a surface?
Habitat loss caused by human actions is a prime culprit in what phenomenon, which appears to be occurring for a sixth time?
What patterns in trees can be used to determine its age?
All of the petals together are called what?
Any nucleus that is unstable and decays spontaneously is said to be what?
What is the term for viscous magmas that are high in silica and tend to stay below the surface or erupt explosively?
How many meters deep does the photic zone extend?
What is the name of the process in which the nuclei of uranium atoms are split?
What type of bonds are formed between atoms sharing electrons?
An individual virus is called what?
What type of particle collides with an atom of u-235 during the basic nuclear fission process?
What color is phosphate mineral turquoise?
Groups of three bases form codons, and each codon stands for one what?
Bees, wasps, ants, butterflies, moths, flies and beetles belong to what animal phylum?
How many ways are there for a species to go extinct?
Often generated by molecular cloning, transgenic organisms possess what from a different species?
The skin disease impetigo is caused by spread of what type of microorganism?
Plants go through seasonal changes after detecting differences in what?
What cycle is part of cellular respiration and makes atp and naph?
What type of mechanical weathering occurs when one rock bumps against another rock?
What kind of hormones serve many functions in addition to promoting gamete production?
The tissue that will become the scrotum in a male becomes the labia in a female, thus, they are regarded as having what relationship?
How frequently do high tides occur?
What phase does the cell make final preparations to divide?
How do multicellular organisms grow in size?
What symbol is used to indicate directionality in chemical reactions?
Who wrote the book on the origin of species?
What is considered a good source of calcium?
Exons are cut out before what leaves the nucleus?
What nervous system is divided into two parts, the sensory division and the motor division?
What crucial role does beneficial fungi play?
When mendel crossed purple flowered-plants and white flowered-plants, all the offspring had what color flowers?
When statoliths settle to the low point in the chamber, they stimulate what in that location?
The goal of this is the understand how and why things happen?
What are the most diverse organisms on earth, which are often classified by shape or how they react to gram stain?
Breathing involves differences in what, measured in torr, between the inside of the lungs and the air outside?
Gymnamoebas constitute a large and varied group of what?
Lymph vessels make up a circulatory system that is similar to the blood vessels of what system?
In weather terms, what do you call the boundary between two air masses?
What process takes place when plants release water vapor through pores in their leaves called stomata?
Most hydrogen atoms have how many protons?
How many viruses that can cause cancer in humans have been identified by scientists?
What is utilized to analyze simple mendelian inheritance?
What is the only animal phyla that does not consist exclusively of invertebrates?
Soap acts as what kind of agent between grease and water?
The nucleus from a differentiated frog cell can direct development of what?
What can slow down the increase of viruses in the blood?
In a few species, chloroplast genes are inherited only from what?
Ions flow through atp synthase from the thylakoid space into the stroma in a process called known as what?
What is the name of microscopic channels which traverse the cell walls of plants?
Like the platypus, the echnida is a what?
The cell membrane consists of two layers of what?
What is an adaptation?
Where fossils of the genus eomaia found?
By exploding what the space probes get separated from their launchers?
What is the energy that matter possesses because of its location or structure?
What is the term for the relatively stable state inside the body of an animal?
What is the middle layer of connective tissue called?
Unlike prokaryotic chromosomes, eukaryotic chromosomes are what?
Reversible reactions are indicated by what kinds of arrows?
Downhill skiiers gain little advantage from a running start because the initial kinetic energy is small compared with the gain in what other energy form?
Population size is the number of what in a population?
What is the cause of common mold allergies?
Which sphincter is located at the stomach end of the esophagus and opens to allow the bolus to enter the stomach?
What adaptation helps prey hide and predators sneak up on prey?
Bursitis is the inflammation of a bursa near what?
What is one thing that cell membranes are permeable to?
What kind of a process is corrosion?
What is equal to the angular acceleration multiplied by the radius of the rotating object?
What is the membrane lining the back of the eye called?
What group of animals has adapted to live in both water and on land?
Animals breath in air in order to obtain what element?
Where are pressure receptors mainly found?
Monomers of condensation polymers must contain how many functional groups so that each monomer can link up with two other monomers?
What is the name of the skull that covers the brain and protects it?
Silk and cotton are examples of what kind of fiber?
Reacting with metal is one thing that distinguishes acids from what?
What happens to light when it passed from air to water?
The basic voltaic cell variations are the dry cell and the what?
In a solution, what is the substance present in the lesser amount called?
What is the difference between oils and fats at room temperature?
A cochlear implant aims to restore loss of what sense?
In which constellation is the helix nebula located?
The chains in cellulose stack in parallel rows held together by hydrogen bonds between which groups?
The small, rocky bodies that orbit the sun are called what?
Water is used by the plant to move materials up from the roots to make what?
Magnets have a "north" and a "south" what?
Exemplified by organisms that grow in geysers, hyperthermophiles "love" what?
What is the term for the multi-phase process in which the nucleus of the cell divides?
Fungi often make specialized reproductive structures, such as what?
Which is a more reliable trait or measure to identify minerals?
Inside female cones, female spores develop into female what?
What is the name of the molecule which has one carbon and four hydrogen atoms?
On a global scale, plants and other photosynthetic organisms have generated all of what element in the air?
What living creatures comprise the "rainforests of the oceans"?
What type of reactions absorb heat from their surroundings?
Two significant parts of the heat include the atrium and its counterpart, which is what?
Bigger ocean waves and waves that carry more sediment cause a greater extent of what?
Which science is an extension of genetics, evolution, anatomy, physiology, and other biological disciplines?
What are catalysts in living things called?
What is part of a large fungus that lives underground?
When sediments settle out of water, what do they form?
In the inner ear, the vibrations are changed to electrical signals by hair cells lining what?
What causes cells to divide if cytokinins are added to it?
Angiosperm seed develops inside of what?
The efficiency of a machine is a measure of how well it reduces what force?
Algae produce food using what process?
What happens to energy when work is done by a system?
What term is used to describe organic compounds such as sugars and starches?
What indicates horizontal distance and are also found on the map legend?
What is the blood in the body pumped with?
What kind of diffusion do small hydrophobic molecules squeeze through lipid molecules?
The feeding positions in a food chain or web are called?
Parasites infect the host's what?
Earthquakes cause longitudinal waves as well as which other waves?
How does the water cycle end?
Light travels more quickly in air than what?
What are chromosomes made of?
What is the general name for a group of atoms derived from an alkane?
What are most cells surrounded by?
What is the term for materials that have both a defined shape and a defined volume?
Proto-oncogenes can change into oncogenes that cause what?
What is the radioactive process used in nuclear power plants and one type of nuclear bomb?
Where does a crossover occur on a chromosome?
What are the biggest groups of stars called?
What is defined as the act of contaminating the environment with waste?
What type of energy is produced when two objects move together?
What is the mechanism by which favorable traits become more common in organisms over the course of generations?
Evaporation of moisture is greatest where it is?
What are the structural and functional units of the kidneys?
What does the ovule mature into after double fertilization?
The gap between two dna fragments is sealed by what?
"incident" and "reflected" are two types of what?
Where does most of the earth's energy come from?
What do we call a carbohydrate formed by two monosaccharides bonding together?
What determines how long a planet's orbit is around the sun?
Anaerobic cellular respiration does not require the presence of what (by the very fact it is anaerobic, specifically)?
The three-dimensional spaces with specific shapes that are components of electrons shells are known as what?
In relation to electrical current, what property will a narrow wire have more of than a wide wire?
Oil and water do not mix, instead forming two distinct layers called what?
Oranges and lemons are examples of fruits that contain what acid?
What is the term for buildup of cell debris and cholesterol inside the arteries?
In the body, in which organ does chemical digestion mainly take place?
Excessive exposure to what is the main cause of skin cancer?
Mitosis actually occurs in how many phases?
Where are b cells produced in the body?
Three body segments, a hard exoskeleton, and jointed appendages are features of what invertebrate group, which includes spider and insects?
What type of mirror is shaped like the outside of a bowl?
When do gases and liquids become solids?
The full range of wavelengths and frequencies of electromagnetic radiation make up the ____________
What divide on their own by a process that resembles binary fission in prokaryotes?
What are tiny hairs that line the bronchi called?
What cycle occurs in women of reproductive age, as a long as a sperm does not enter an egg?
Corrosion is usually defined as the degradation of metals due to what?
What type of organism generally lives in or on its host?
What causes the alpine tundra to be so cold?
Like the frame of a house, what gives the cell an internal structure?
A species that benefits and harms the host organism is called a what?
When liquid water changes to water vapor it is called?
Chewing insects mechanically damage plants and lessen the surface area of leaves for what?
Reptiles are described by what term that means their internal temperature depends on the temperature of their environment?
What lines the passages of the nose and senses chemicals in the air?
Telomerase is typically active in germ cells and adult what?
What do you call materials able to conduct electricity with 100% efficiency, meaning that no energy is lost during the electrical transmission?
What does scientific notation use to write very large or very small numbers?
Speed, loudness, and pitch are properties of what?
Radioactive nuclei and particles are represented by which symbols?
Properties of matter can be considered physical or?
What are alveoli?
Railroad tracks and roadways can buckle on hot days if they lack sufficient what?
What is the name of the complex mixture that consists of water, proteins, fats, carbohydrates, and minerals?
What disease is the result of unchecked cell division caused by a breakdown of the mechanisms regulating the cell cycle?
What is the term for an exact genetic copy?
Where do recent rocks point towards on earth?
What type of cell function relies on microfilaments, which are the actin components of the cytoskeleton?
The two simplest models of population growth use what to describe the rate of change in the size of a population over time?
What is the separation of ions that occurs when a solid ionic compound dissolves?
What do charged particles in motion generate?
What bonding is formed in polar amino acid side chains?
What is the name for the energy waves that radiate out from the center of an earthquake?
During a human pregnancy, which trimester exhibits the greatest growth of the fetus and culminates in labor and delivery?
What do ecologists study at every level?
The main shaft of the penis is covered by relatively thick what?
What is the broadest category in the linnaean system?
Reactants may also be present in such low concentrations that it is unlikely they will meet and do what?
The three main body segments of an arthropod are head, thorax, and what?
What is the term for what the earth rotates on?
What is the end product of glycolysis?
A vector is any quantity that has magnitude and what?
The softer connective tissue that fills the interior of most bone is referred to as what?
What is stored mainly in liver and muscle cells by humans and other vertebrates?
What soil is common in deciduous forests?
What do voltmeters measure across a resistor?
Cardiac muscle is found only in which part of the heart?
Wearing personal protective equipment such as goggles and gloves during an experiment is an example of what?
The concentration of the hydrogen ion in a solution can be calculated when what is known?
A fever also causes the immune system to make more of what?
Vascular plants all have roots, stems, and what?
In an aqueous solution, what is the solvent?
What do scientists think to be the oldest eukaryotes?
Carpal, metacarpal and phalanx bones comprise what part of the body?
How did the first seed plants form seeds?
What green cell structures of a leaf are visible under a high power microscope?
What indicates the speed at which a reaction proceeds?
What type of climate does the coast of california have?
Solutions of nonelectrolytes such as ethanol do not contain dissolved ions and cannot conduct what?
Most diplomonads and parabasalids are found in what kind of environment?
Oxygen is an element in what form of matter?
What do experts estimate is the cause for the extinction of hundreds of species every year?
What branch of science is concerned with matter and the changes that it can undergo?
No charge is actually created or destroyed when charges are separated as we have been discussing. rather, existing charges are moved about. in fact, in all situations the total amount of charge is always this?
What type of molecules help the plasma membrane keep its shape?
Unlike matter, which is continuously recycled through ecosystems, what must constantly be added to an ecosystem for use by organisms?
What form of matter has a fixed volume but not a fixed shape?
Why is closed reduction simpler than open reduction in bone repair?
What do methanogens act as in sewage treatment plants?
When resources are limited, populations exhibit what type of growth?
What protects the brain and spinal cord in the central nervous system?
Heating ice to its melting point (0°c) gives its molecules enough energy to do what?
What occur in arteries that can cause heart attacks and strokes?
The added nutrients from fertilizer often cause excessive growth of what organism?
An increase in what levels results in sound waves that are louder and of greater intensity?
What is it called when two plates slide past each other in opposite directions?
What force occurs because no surface is perfectly smooth?
What structure collect fluid that leaks out from blood capillaries?
What is the eighth planet from our sun?
Where is dna located in prokaryotic cells?
Water is considered a what since it is a polar molecule with slightly positive and slightly negative charges, so ions and polar molecules can readily dissolve in it?
The pressure inside a container is dependent on the amount of what inside the container?
What are plant structures that contain male and/or female reproductive organs?
Each species has a particular way of making a living which is called its what?
Both the forward reaction and the reverse reaction continue to occur, so chemical equilibrium is said to be what, rather than static?
What is the watery fluid that bathes tissues and organs and contains protective white blood cells but does not contain erythrocytes?
How many openings do adult tunicates have that siphon water in and out of the body?
What is the term for the combined forces acting on an object?
What is the name of the first stage of photosynthesis?
What are endothermic tetrapod vertebrates most commonly called?
What is the space between a neuron and the next cell?
Free fatty acids are carboxylic acids that contain long chains of what?
What do you call nutrients that your body needs in fairly large amounts?
What is the most important function of enzymes in animals?
After coming apart from the crystal, the individual ions are then surrounded by solvent particles in a process called what?
A battery is a multiple connection of what kind of cells?
What is needed for a person to be affected by an autosomal dominant disorder?
The rocks athe mid-ocean ridge are nearly free of what?
What do we call a simple machine that consists of a rope and grooved wheel?
What do you call health-promoting molecules that inhibit the oxidation of other molecules?
In a correctly balanced equation, all coefficients must be what kind of numbers?
Highly reactive nonmetals, which only accept electrons and do not give them up, make poor what?
What is the passing of traits from parents to offspring called?
What is the most important source of electromagnetic waves on earth?
Which part of the atmosphere do greenhouse gasses trap heat in?
How are the fetuses of eutherian mammals connected to their mothers during gestation?
Vivipary refers to the development and nourishment of a what?
What are the flattened, disk-shaped cells in blood that carry oxygen?
What is matter in the universe that does not emit light called?
Without particles, water vapor could not do what?
Sounds are produced when muscles in what organ are tensed, stretching the cords so they vibrate?
What is most energy that is lost to the environment lost as?
What is the resultant waste product of photosynthesis?
What is the term for a measure of both speed and direction?
What is a body of freshwater that flows downhill in a channel?
What form of reproduction creates offspring that are genetically identical to the parent?
Asteroids, comets, and planets move around the sun in curved paths called what?
The primary motor cortex is located in which lobe of the brain?
The beginning of what season experiences the shortest period of daylight hours?
The sex of developing crocodilians is determined by what during incubation?
What are the two main types of star clusters?
Many species of flowering plants have coevolved with specific what?
Do most waves strike the shore head on or at an angle?
What ingredient has been used in brewing, winemaking and baking for thousands of years?
The tibia is the larger, weight-bearing bone located on the medial side of the leg. the fibula is the slender bone of the lateral side of the leg and does not do what?
What are reptiles unable to absorb through their skin because of scales?
All types of cells are enclosed by what?
What causes symptoms associated with sickle-cell disease?
Candida and trichophyton are examples of disease-causing types of what organisms, which become parasitic?
What type of cells detect stimuli?
What 3 things do animals need to live and survive?
The cultivated forms of wheat, cotton, and tobacco plants are all what?
A hydrogen atom with one neutron is called what?
What compounds form crystals instead of molecules?
What is the process by which plants make the simple sugar glucose from carbon dioxide and water is called?
The three units of kpa, atm or mmhg commonly measure what?
The behavior of ideal gases is explained by what theory of gases?
Besides ingesting and photosynthesis how can protists get their food?
The male gametophyte releases what, which swim - propelled by their flagella - to reach and fertilize the female gamete or egg?
What causes the wheels of the car to turn?
While the goal of science is to increase knowledge, the goal of what is to use knowledge for practical purposes?
What are the two terms that designate how well aqueous solutions conduct electricity?
The concept that atoms tend to have eight electrons in their valence electron shell is called what?
What separates one river system's basin from another river system's basin?
What system possesses a memory component that allows for an efficient and dramatic response upon reinvasion of the same pathogen?
Honeybees doing the waggle dance or spiders spinning a web are examples of what type of behavior?
What glands remove water, salts and other wastes from skin?
A series of arches that support the gills of aquatic amphibians and fish are known as what?
What term, calculated by multiplying heart contractions by stroke volume, means the volume of blood pumped by the heart in one minute?
Birds are thought to have evolved from a group of bipedal dinosaurs called what?
What is the third class of elements after metals and nonmetals?
Proteins are categorized according to shape and what property, which correlates with it?
Melting ice is drastically impacting the number of what at glacier national park?
What element is present in all organic molecules?
A sample of matter that has the same physical and chemical properties throughout itself is known as what?
Hepatitis b is inflammation of which organ?
If a substance has a ph value greater than 7, what does it indicate?
The percent yield is determined by calculating the ratio of actual yield by what?
What are located along convergent and divergent plate boundaries?
What part of the neuron is a large structure with a central nucleus?
Hydrogen-based fuel cells were and are used to provide what for manned space vehicles?
What are plants that are adapted to very dry environments called?
What neurons carry nerve impulses from sense organs and internal organs to the central nervous system?
Associated with hair follicles, what type of oil gland is found all over the body and helps to lubricate and waterproof the skin and hair?
The five human senses are taste, touch, vision, hearing and one more. what is it?
How many bones does an adult skeleton have?
Temperature and precipitation determine the types of what that can grow in an area, in turn affecting the animals that live there?
What is the transfer of heat by physical contact?
What analytical technique, using stained gel, can separate dna fragments or rna molecules and proteins?
Questioning claims based on their scientific verifiability rather than accepting claims based on faith or anecdotes is called what?
Animals with better fitness have a better chance of passing their genes onto the next generation, this process is known as?
What acids are the structural components of many lipids and may be saturated or unsaturated?
Earth's axis is an imaginary line passing through which poles?
What system does addictive drugs affect?
What happens when ionic compounds are dissolved in water?
What is the process in which unspecialized cells become specialized in structure and function to perform certain tasks in the body?
Toxins and poisons are ______ enzyme inhibitos
How many types of basic sensory receptors are there?
What bond is the force of attraction that holds together two atoms that share a pair of valence electrons?
Above the meristem, the rest of the root is covered with a single layer of what type of cells, which may have root hairs?
What were the first plants to evolve?
What term describes the distance between two corresponding points on adjacent waves?
What break down dead organisms and other organic waste and release inorganic molecules back to the environment called?
The variety of cell shapes seen in prokaryotes and eukaryotes reflects the functions that each what has?
What is the science of classifying living things called?
Illustrating how form follows function, long, slender protein strands that make up what tissue are essential for contracting and relaxing?
What makes marginal lands unsuitable for farming?
What happens to water when it freezes?
The three parts of the human small intestine is the duodenum, jejunum, and what?
What is the term for the ability of a fluid to exert an upward force on any object placed in it?
A fuel cell is a galvanic cell that requires a constant external supply of what?
Lichens are not a single organism, but rather an example of a what?
What theory states that there is no interaction between individual gas particles?
Which is one of the most frequently studied cartilaginous fish?
A vapor light produces visible light by what process?
What substance, which forms igneous rock, flows out in rivers of lava when it reaches the surface?
What do mammals have under the skin to help insulate the body?
Certain air pollutants form which liquid when dissolved in water droplets in the air?
What element is the most abundant in the universe?
Atoms of a given _______ are identical in size, mass, and other properties.
Spongy bone is found inside bones and is lighter and less dense than compact bone because it is what?
Animals are heterotrophs, which means that they cannot make their own what?
What is the electron domain geometry of ammonia?
In humans, fertilization occurs soon after the oocyte leaves this?
Oxygen, carbon dioxide, atp, and nadph are reactants in what process that plants use to produce food?
What is the basic unit of the structure and function of living things?
The earth's gravitational force causes the moon to do what?
When a nerve impulse reaches the end of an axon, what are the chemicals released by the axon called?
What do ecosystems absorb on the earth?
Under what type of conditions can populations grow exponentially?
Malonate plays what negative role on the enzyme succinate dehydrogenase?
How many mass extinctions have occurred throughout earth's history?
What refers to the ability to change or move matter and is required by all life processes and living things?
In the grand canyon, the same rock layers are visible on opposite sides of the canyon and were deposited simultaneously, which is an example of what?
What do we call the visible part of the electromagnetic spectrum?
What type of crust is made of basalt lavas that flow onto the seafloor?
Do changes to rocks happen quickly or slowly?
What is a large molecule with many repeating units?
What absorbs, scatters, or reflects most incoming solar radiation in the atmosphere?
Small nonprotein, water-soluble molecules or ions called second messengers often play a role in what kind of pathways?
How do many mammals control their body temperature?
The invention of the wheel is an example of what, which has the goal of solving human problems?
Prokaryotes can reproduce quickly by what?
What is defined by its sequence of nucleotides?
What in roundworms is a partial body cavity filled with fluid?
Which body system breaks down food and absorbs nutrients?
What disease is unpreventable in the type one form but may be prevented by diet if it is of the second type?
What do you call a chemical process used to treat water by destroying a contaminant?
What occurs when excess carbon dioxide in the atmosphere causes the oceans to become acidic?
What kind of muscle is the heart mainly composed of?
Assume a molecule must cross the plasma membrane into what?
What branch of science explains much of what you observe and do in your daily life?
Most of the energy used by living things comes either directly or indirectly from where?
When present in large volumes, what color hue can water emit?
What prevents new ovarian follicles from developing and suppresses uterine contractility?
What type of bombs put a much larger fraction of their output into thermal energy than do conventional bombs?
The majority of elements, including iron and copper, are of what type?
What happens to water vapor as it rises?
Prophase is preceded by a preprophase stage in what type of cells?
The bilaterians are divided into deuterostomes and what else?
What is it called when birds keep their eggs warm while the embryos inside develop?
What leaves behind crescent-shaped scars on a hillside and  may be caused by a layer of slippery, wet clay underneath the rock and soil on a hillside?
What is the organ system that brings oxygen into the body and releases carbon dioxide?
What is the union of the cytoplasms of two parent mycelia known as?
How many chambers are there in a bird's heart?
The ladybug and the frog both start as eggs and go through what process?
What formula  shows only the kinds and numbers of atoms in a molecule?
In multicellular organisms, essential biological functions are carried out by what?
Fahrenheit, celsius, and kelvin are all units which measure what?
Many plants respond to the days growing shorter in the fall by doing what?
What are the smallest particles of matter?
How do animals obtain nitrogen?
Hydrophilic molecules generally avoid what other kinds of molecules?
Where do t cells mature?
The name of a simple covalent compound can be determined from its chemical this?
Asteroids are not geologically active. which is the only way they can change?
What term describes reproducing by external fertilization after the female sheds large numbers of small eggs?
Solid carbon dioxide is called what?
While ecosystems need a constant input of energy for their organisms, what do ecosystems recycle?
Most mercury compounds decompose when they are?
Animal behavior can be said to be controlled by genetics and experiences, also known as nature and what?
The first two electrons in lithium fill the 1s orbital and have the same sets of four what as the two electrons in helium?
What allows some things to enter the cell while keeping other things out?
What is the term for something changing from water to ice?
What is an individual with more than the correct number of chromosome sets called?
Most of the fresh water on earth is tied up in a solid form. what are they called?
What takes place where septa is found?
Hertz proved that what type of waves travel at the speed of light?
Specific antigens on the surface of red blood cells determine what, which is important in cases of transfusion?
Where do extrusive igneous rocks cool at?
What is citrate an ionized form of?
What functions in removing phosphorylated amino acids from proteins?
The hypothalamus in vertebrates integrates what two systems?
What type of biomes have water containing little or no salt?
Electricity consists of a constant stream of what tiny particles?
What is a solution with a ph lower than 7 called?
Which division of the peripheral nervous system interprets signals, while the motor division sends signals?
What record provides evidence that new species develop to fill the habitats where old species lived following a mass extinction?
What is the process of filtering waste from the kidneys?
The energy required to remove an electron from a gaseous atom is called?
The four basic types of tissue are epithelial, muscle, connective, and what?
What theory states that all matter consists of constantly moving particles?
Carnivores that eat herbivores are what kind of consumers?
Plant-like protists contains chloroplasts and make food by what process?
What is written as systolic over diastolic?
When a species changes in small ways over time, what is it called?
What is the purpose of a bird using flashy displays?
What do you call the ancient cores of continents, where the earliest continental crust is now found?
In the case of the moose, predation is an additional factor that regulates what?
Where do short period comets come from?
Only after implantation can an embryo develop into a what?
What are atoms with unstable nuclei are considered to be?
In what form is atmospheric sulfur found?
